JUDY WOODRUFF. ON THE
NEWSHOUR TONIGHT, A
ON THE NEWSHOUR TONIGHT,
A BOMBING IN BANGKOK.
BOMBING IN BANGKOK. DEADLY
BLASTS ROCK THAILAND'S
DEADLY BLASTS ROCK
THAILAND'S CATAL.PI
CATAL.PI THEN, GWEN
IFILL'S IN IOWA,
THEN, GWEN IFILL'S IN IOWA,
REPORTING ON THIS SUMMER'S
POLITICAL ROMANCES.
POLITICAL ROMANCES. THE
2016 CANDIDATES WOO VOTERS
THE 2016 CANDIDATES WOO VOTERS
ON THE SOAP BOX AND AMONG THE
ON THE SOAP BOX AND
AMONG THE CROWDS.
CROWDS. >> WE'RE
HERE AT THE IOWA
>> WE'RE HERE AT THE IOWA
STATE FAIR WHICH WAS THE
CENTER OF THE POLITICAL
UNIVERSE THIS WEEKEND.
UNIVERSE THIS WEEKEND. I
TALKED TO ONE OF THE BIG
I TALKED TO ONE OF THE BIG
DRAWS, VERMONT SENATOR
BERNIE SANDERS.
BERNIE SANDERS. >> Woodruff:
PLUS, RE-THINKING
>> Woodruff: PLUS,
RE-THINKING COLLEGE.
COLLEGE. THE UNIVERSITY
OF TEXAS FIGHTS
THE UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS FIGHTS
TO RETAIN STUDENTS FROM LOW
INCOME FAMILIES WHO ARE AT RISK
INCOME FAMILIES WHO ARE
AT RISK OF DROPPING OUT.
OF DROPPING OUT. >> A
LOT OF PEOPLE COME FROM
>> A LOT OF PEOPLE COME FROM
HIGH INCOME FAMILIES, YOU
FEEL DIFFERENT, YOU MIGHT
HAVE DIFFERENT MANNERISMS.
IN THE BACK OF YOUR MIND,
GETTING INTO THAT MENTAL
HEAD SPACE COULD BE
HEAD SPACE COULD BE DAMAGING.
DAMAGING. >> Woodruff:
ALL THAT AND MORE
>> Woodruff: ALL THAT AND MORE
ON TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: IT TURNS OUT THAT
A CYBER-ATTACK ON THE INTERNAL
CYBER-ATTACK ON THE INTERNAL
REVENUE SERVICE WAS FAR WORSE
REVENUE SERVICE WAS FAR
WORSE THAN FIRST THOUGHT.
THAN FIRST THOUGHT. THE
AGENCY ANNOUNCED TODAY AN
THE AGENCY ANNOUNCED TODAY AN
ADDITIONAL 220,000 TAXPAYER
ACCOUNTS WERE POTENTIALLY
ACCESSED IN THE BREACH LAST MAY.
THAT BRINGS THE TOTAL AFFECTED
TO MORE THAN 330,000.
TO MORE THAN 330,000. THE
I.R.S. SAYS THE HACKERS,
THE I.R.S. SAYS THE HACKERS,
POSSIBLY FROM RUSSIA, WANTED
STOLEN IDENTITIES TO CLAIM
FRAUDULENT REFUNDS.
FRAUDULENT REFUNDS. CHINA
HAS DISMISSED A WARNING
CHINA HAS DISMISSED A WARNING
FROM PRESIDENT OBAMA ABOUT ITS
ENTSAG OPERATING SECRETLY IN THE
ENTSAG OPERATING
SECRETLY IN THE U.S.
U.S. "THE NEW YORK
TIMES" REPORTED
"THE NEW YORK TIMES" REPORTED
THE CHINESE ARE PRESSURING
EXPATRIATES WANTED FOR GRAFT AND
EXPATRIATES WANTED FOR GRAFT
AND CORRUPTION TO RETURN HOME.
CORRUPTION TO RETURN HOME.
CHINA'S STATE NEWS AGENCY CALLED
CHINA'S STATE NEWS AGENCY
CALLED THE AMERICAN WARNING A
THE AMERICAN WARNING
A "REGRETTABLE MOVE"
"REGRETTABLE MOVE" A BOMB
BLAST ROCKED THAILAND'S
A BOMB BLAST ROCKED THAILAND'S
CAPITAL CITY TODAY DURING
EVENING RUSH HOUR.
EVENING RUSH HOUR. REPORTS
OF THE DEAD RANGED FROM
REPORTS OF THE DEAD RANGED FROM
18 TO 27, POSSIBLY INCLUDING
FOREIGNERS, WITH MORE THAN 100
FOREIGNERS, WITH MORE
THAN 100 INJURED.
INJURED. DAN RIVERS
OF INDEPENDENT
DAN RIVERS OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS REPORTS.
TELEVISION NEWS REPORTS. >>
Reporter: AT THE HEIGHT OF
>> Reporter: AT THE HEIGHT OF
RUSH HOUR, A FIRE BALL ENGULFS
ONE OF BANGKOK'S BUSIEST
ONE OF BANGKOK'S
BUSIEST CROSSROADS.
CROSSROADS. CAUGHT ON
THE DASHBOARD CAMERA
CAUGHT ON THE DASHBOARD CAMERA
OF A CAR NEARBY, THE EXPLOSION
COULD BE HEARD ACROSS THE CITY.
THE BLAST HIT THE CITY'S FAMOUS
ERAWAN SHRINE WHERE THAIS PRAY
ERAWAN SHRINE WHERE THAIS
PRAY FOR OD LGOUCK.
FOR OD LGOUCK. TONIGHT
THOUGH, IT WAS
TONIGHT THOUGH, IT WAS
TRANSFORMED INTO A SCENE OF
TRANSFORMED INTO A
SCENE OF CARNAGE.
CARNAGE. THE EMERGENCY
SERVICES ARRIVED
THE EMERGENCY SERVICES ARRIVED
OMENMTS AFTER THE ATTACK,
HELPING THE DOZENS OF PEOPLE
CAUGHT UP IN THE MAYHEM, MANY
STILL SHAKING WITH SHOCK.
BODIES WERE STREWN ACROSS THE
STREET, JUST YARDS FROM SEVERAL
FIVE-STAR HOTELS AND SHOPPING
MALLS POPULAR WITH FOREIGN
MALLS POPULAR WITH
FOREIGN TOURISTS.
TOURISTS. EARLY REPORTS
SUGGESTED IT WAS A
EARLY REPORTS SUGGESTED IT WAS A
MOTORBIKE BOMB, BUT LATER IT WAS
REPORTED THE DEVICE WAS INSIDE
REPORTED THE DEVICE WAS
INSIDE THE SHRINE ITSELF.
THE SHRINE ITSELF. BOMB
DISPOSAL SPECIALISTS
BOMB DISPOSAL SPECIALISTS
CHECKED FOR SECONDARY DEVICES.
IT'S NOT CLEAR IF ANY WERE
IT'S NOT CLEAR IF
ANY WERE FOUND.
FOUND. ERIC SELDIN
WAS IN A HOTEL
ERIC SELDIN WAS IN A HOTEL
ACROSS THE ROAD WHEN THE BLAST
ACROSS THE ROAD WHEN
THE BLAST HAPPENED.
HAPPENED. >> I WAS
EATING MY NOODLES AND I
>> I WAS EATING MY NOODLES AND
I LITERALLY SHOOK FROM MY
LITERALLY SHOOK FROM MY
SHOULDERS AND THE OTHER PATRONS
WERE EXTREMELY STARTLED.
WERE EXTREMELY STARTLED. EVEN
THE STAFF AT THE HOTEL WERE
EVEN THE STAFF AT THE HOTEL WERE
STARTLED BECAUSE THEY HAD NEVER
HEARD ANYTHING LIKE THAT.
HEARD ANYTHING LIKE THAT. >>
Reporter: THE RATCHAPRASONG
>> Reporter: THE RATCHAPRASONG
CROSSROADS HAS BEEN THE SCENE OF
CROSSROADS HAS BEEN THE SCENE
OF NUMEROUS VIOLENT PROTESTS IN
NUMEROUS VIOLENT PROTESTS IN
RECENT YEARS INVOLVING COMPETING
FACTIONS IN THAILAND'S LONG-
RUNNING POLITICAL INSTABILITY.
IT SAW THE ARMY TAKE POWER LAST
IT SAW THE ARMY TAKE
POWER LAST YEAR.
YEAR. IT'S NOT CLEAR
IF TODAY'S BLAST
IT'S NOT CLEAR IF TODAY'S BLAST
WAS LINKED TO THAT POLITICAL
CONFLICT OR WHETHER ISLAMIST
MILITANTS IN THAILAND'S FAR
MILITANTS IN THAILAND'S
FAR SOUTH ARE TO BLAME.
SOUTH ARE TO BLAME. BUT
THE EFFECT ON THAILAND'S
BUT THE EFFECT ON THAILAND'S
TOURISM INDUSTRY WILL BE
SERIOUS, HITTING A PLACE MANY
WESTERNERS VISIT WITH SUCH
WESTERNERS VISIT WITH
SUCH DEVASTATING FORCE.
DEVASTATING FORCE. >>
Woodruff: THERE WAS NO
>> Woodruff: THERE WAS
NO IMMEDIATE CLAIM OF
IMMEDIATE CLAIM OF
RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ATTACK.
CHINA ORDERED A NATIONAL CHECK
OF WORKPLACE SAFETY TODAY, FIVE
DAYS AFTER EXPLOSIONS SHATTERED
THE PORT OF TIANJIN AND LEFT 114
THE PORT OF TIANJIN AND
LEFT 114 PEOPLE DEAD.
PEOPLE DEAD. MORE TEAMS
WERE DISPATCHED TO
MORE TEAMS WERE DISPATCHED TO
SEARCH FOR AT LEAST ANOTHER 70
SEARCH FOR AT LEAST
ANOTHER 70 STILL MISSING.
STILL MISSING. MEANWHILE,
OFFICIALS CONFIRMED
MEANWHILE, OFFICIALS CONFIRMED
THERE WERE 700 TONS OF TOXIC
SODIUM CYANIDE AT THE SITE, BUT
SAID THEY'VE ACTED TO PREVENT
SAID THEY'VE ACTED TO
PREVENT CHEMICAL RUNOFF.
CHEMICAL RUNOFF. >> WE
ARE CLOSELY MONITORING
>> WE ARE CLOSELY MONITORING
THE PRESENCE OF SPREAD OF
CHEMICALS, IS NOT VERY BAD.
IN TERMS OF THE SITUATION
AFTER THE RAINFALL, WE STILL
HAVEN'T SEEN ANY RAINFALL
BUT WE HAVE ALREADY MADE A
BUT WE HAVE ALREADY MADE
A PRECAUTIONARY PLAN TO
PRECAUTIONARY PLAN
TO CLOSELY MONITOR.
CLOSELY MONITOR. SO
PLEASE DON'T WORRY ABOUT
SO PLEASE DON'T WORRY ABOUT IT.
IT. >> Woodruff:
SEPARATELY, FOREIGN
>> Woodruff: SEPARATELY, FOREIGN
COMPANIES INCLUDING TOYOTA AND
PANASONIC MOVED TO SUSPEND
OPERATIONS AROUND THE PORT.
AN AERIAL SEARCH IN INDONESIA
HAS SPOTTED THE WRECKAGE OF A
COMMERCIAL AIRLINER THAT CRASHED
YESTERDAY, BUT THERE'S NO WORD
YESTERDAY, BUT THERE'S
NO WORD OF SURVIVORS.
OF SURVIVORS. THE
TRIGANA AIR SERVICE
THE TRIGANA AIR SERVICE
TURBOPROP WAS FOUND IN A RUGGED
AREA OF THE PROVINCE OF PAPUA.
RELATIVES OF THE 54 PEOPLE ON
BOARD GATHERED AT THE AIRLINE'S
BOARD GATHERED AT THE
AIRLINE'S OFFICES TODAY.
OFFICES TODAY.
THEY'LL BE TAKEN TO THE CRASH
SITE TO IDENTIFY REMAINS OF
SITE TO IDENTIFY REMAINS
OF THEIR LOVED ONES.
THEIR LOVED ONES. THE
PLANE ALSO CARRIED NEARLY
THE PLANE ALSO CARRIED NEARLY
$470,000 DOLLARS IN GOVERNMENT
FUEL AID FOR THE POOR.
FUEL AID FOR THE POOR. IRAN'S
SUPREME LEADER, AYATOLLAH
IRAN'S SUPREME LEADER, AYATOLLAH
KHAMENEI, SAID TODAY THE FATE OF
A NUCLEAR DEAL LIES WITH U.S.
A NUCLEAR DEAL LIES WITH
U.S. AND IRANIAN LAWMAKERS.
AND IRANIAN LAWMAKERS. HE
TOOK NO DIRECT STANCE ON THE
HE TOOK NO DIRECT STANCE
ON THE AGREEMENT HIMSELF.
AGREEMENT HIMSELF. INSTEAD,
IN A STATEMENT POSTED
INSTEAD, IN A STATEMENT POSTED
ONLINE, KHAMENEI SAID: "IT IS
NOT CLEAR IF IT WILL BE APPROVED
NOT CLEAR IF IT WILL BE
APPROVED HERE OR THERE."
HERE OR THERE." IN SYRIA,
GOVERNMENT PLANES KEPT
IN SYRIA, GOVERNMENT PLANES KEPT
UP AN ASSAULT ON THE CITY OF
DOUMA, NORTHEAST OF DAMASCUS.
JUST YESTERDAY, AIR RAIDS IN THE
REBEL-HELD AREA LEFT NEARLY 100
PEOPLE DEAD AND WOUNDED HUNDREDS
PEOPLE DEAD AND WOUNDED
HUNDREDS MORE.
MORE. THE ATTACKS ALSO DREW
THE ATTACKS ALSO DREW
CONDEMNATION TODAY FROM THE
WHITE HOUSE AND FROM A
VISITING U.N. HUMANITARIAN
VISITING U.N.
HUMANITARIAN CHIEF.
CHIEF. >> I AM
ABSOLUTELY HORRIFIED BY
>> I AM ABSOLUTELY HORRIFIED BY
THE TOTAL DISREGARD FOR CIVILIAN
LIFE BY ALL PARTIES IN THIS
LIFE BY ALL PARTIES
IN THIS CONFLICT.
CONFLICT. ATTACKS
ON CIVILIANS ARE
ATTACKS ON CIVILIANS ARE
UNLAWFUL, UNACCEPTABLE AND MUST
UNLAWFUL, UNACCEPTABLE
AND MUST STOP.
STOP. I APPEAL TO
EVERY PARTY ENGAGED
I APPEAL TO EVERY PARTY ENGAGED
IN VIOLENCE AND FIGHTING TO
IN VIOLENCE AND FIGHTING
TO PROTECT CIVILIANS.
PROTECT CIVILIANS. >>
Woodruff: DAMASCUS HAS SEEN
>> Woodruff: DAMASCUS HAS SEEN
ESCALATING VIOLENCE IN RECENT
DAYS, WITH ATTACKS KILLING
DOZENS LAST WEEK, AS WELL.
BACK IN THIS COUNTRY, THE
NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
HAS BARRED NORTHWESTERN
UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL PLAYERS FROM
FORMING THE FIRST UNION FOR
FORMING THE FIRST UNION
FOR COLLEGE ATHLETES.
COLLEGE ATHLETES. THEY
WANTED TO NEGOTIATE SHARES
THEY WANTED TO NEGOTIATE SHARES
OF TICKET SALES AND LICENSING
OF TICKET SALES AND
LICENSING DEALS.
DEALS. THE N.L.R.B.
SAID HAVING UNION
THE N.L.R.B. SAID HAVING UNION
AND NON-UNION TEAMS PLAY EACH
OTHER COULD UNBALANCE COLLEGE
OTHER COULD UNBALANCE
COLLEGE SPORTS.
SPORTS. THE WHITE
HOUSE ANNOUNCED NEW
THE WHITE HOUSE ANNOUNCED NEW
STEPS TODAY TO BATTLE A RISE IN
STEPS TODAY TO BATTLE A RISE
IN FATAL OVERDOSES OF HEROIN.
FATAL OVERDOSES OF HEROIN. THE
$5 MILLION PLAN WILL PAIR
THE $5 MILLION PLAN WILL PAIR
DRUG INTELLIGENCE OFFICIALS WITH
PUBLIC HEALTH WORKERS TO STOP
THE DRUG'S SPREAD AND PROMOTE
THE DRUG'S SPREAD AND
PROMOTE TREATMENT.
TREATMENT. HEROIN
OVERDOSE DEATHS HAVE
HEROIN OVERDOSE DEATHS HAVE
QUADRUPLED IN THE U.S. OVER THE
QUADRUPLED IN THE U.S.
OVER THE LAST DECADE.
LAST DECADE. ROYAL DUTCH
SHELL NOW HAS THE
ROYAL DUTCH SHELL NOW HAS THE
GREEN LIGHT TO DRILL FOR OIL OFF
ALASKA'S NORTHWEST COAST, FOR
THE FIRST TIME SINCE 1991.
FEDERAL OFFICIALS ISSUED THE
FEDERAL OFFICIALS ISSUED
THE FINAL PERMIT TODAY.
FINAL PERMIT TODAY. AND
ON WALL STREET, THE DOW
AND ON WALL STREET, THE DOW
JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE GAINED
NEARLY 70 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
NEARLY 70 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 17,545.
17,545. THE NASDAQ
ROSE MORE THAN 40
THE NASDAQ ROSE MORE THAN 40
POINTS, AND THE S&P 500 ADDED
POINTS, AND THE
S&P 500 ADDED 11.
11. AND, EMMA
DIDLAKE, THE MICHIGAN
AND, EMMA DIDLAKE, THE MICHIGAN
WOMAN BELIEVED TO BE THE
NATION'S OLDEST VETERAN, HAS
NATION'S OLDEST
VETERAN, HAS DIED.
DIED. SHE SERVED
AS AN ARMY DRIVER
SHE SERVED AS AN ARMY
DRIVER DURING WORLD WAR II.
DURING WORLD WAR II. JUST
LAST MONTH, DIDLAKE MET
JUST LAST MONTH, DIDLAKE MET
WITH PRESIDENT OBAMA, AND HE
PRAISED HER TODAY AS A "TRUE
PRAISED HER TODAY AS A
"TRUE TRAILBLAZER."
TRAILBLAZER." EMMA DIDLAKE
WAS 110 YEARS OLD.
EMMA DIDLAKE WAS 110 YEARS OLD.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
CORN, BUTTER, PORK AND
POLITICIANS AT THE IOWA STATE
POLITICIANS AT THE
IOWA STATE FAIR.
FAIR. THE LATEST ON
THE CAMPAIGN TRAIL
THE LATEST ON THE CAMPAIGN TRAIL
AND THE WEEK AHEAD IN POLITICS.
HOW A TOXIC SPILL AT A GOLD MINE
IN COLORADO IS AFFECTING THOSE
IN COLORADO IS AFFECTING
THOSE LIVING DOWNSTREAM.
LIVING DOWNSTREAM.
AND MUCH MORE.
>> Woodruff: WE BEGIN TONIGHT
IN IOWA WITH A CULTURAL AND
IOWA WITH A CULTURAL
AND POLITICAL MAGNET.
POLITICAL MAGNET. GWEN IS
IN DES MOINES FOR IOWA'S
GWEN IS IN DES MOINES FOR IOWA'S
STATE FAIR, WHERE MORE THAN A
DOZEN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES
ARE TRYING TO STAND OUT IN A
ARE TRYING TO STAND
OUT IN A THICK CROWD.
THICK CROWD. >> Ifill:
THE IOWA STATE FAIR IS
>> Ifill: THE IOWA STATE FAIR
IS A COLORFUL AND CHAOTIC
A COLORFUL AND CHAOTIC
CELEBRATION OF CORN, BUTTER,
PORK AND AMUSEMENTS EVEN IN A
PORK AND AMUSEMENTS EVEN
IN A NON-ELECTION YEAR.
NON-ELECTION YEAR. BUT THIS
WEEKEND BROUGHT THE YIN
BUT THIS WEEKEND BROUGHT THE YIN
AND THE YANG OF A CROWDED 2016
RACE INTO ESPECIALLY SHARP
RACE INTO ESPECIALLY
SHARP FOCUS.
FOCUS. THERE WERE THE LEGACY
THERE WERE THE LEGACY
CANDIDATES: JEB BUSH AND HILLARY
CLINTON, WHO HAVE WALKED THIS
CLINTON, WHO HAVE WALKED
THIS MIDWAY BEFORE.
MIDWAY BEFORE. >> MAN,
THIS HAS BEEN THE
>> MAN, THIS HAS BEEN THE
GREATEST STATE FAIR OF MY LIFE.
>> I WANT ONE ON A STICK,
>> I WANT ONE ON
A STICK, THOUGH.
THOUGH. >> Ifill:
THERE WERE GOVERNORS,
>> Ifill: THERE WERE GOVERNORS,
SENATORS AND OUTLIERS.
SENATORS AND OUTLIERS. >>
GOD BLESS YOU, GOD BLESS
>> GOD BLESS YOU, GOD BLESS
>> Ifill: AND THERE WERE THE
UPSTARTS, ONE FROM THE LEFT AND
ONE FROM THE RIGHT, WHO BROUGHT
WITH THEM CROWDS AND CURIOSITY.
BERNIE SANDERS WAS GREETED LIKE
BERNIE SANDERS WAS GREETED
LIKE A ROCK STAR.
A ROCK STAR. >> IF YOU
AND I WERE SITTING
>> IF YOU AND I WERE SITTING
HERE 4 MONTHS AGO, WHAT YOU
WOULD HAVE FOUND IS VIRTUALLY
NOBODY WHO KNEW BERNIE SANDERS
NOBODY WHO KNEW
BERNIE SANDERS WAS.
WAS. I AM A SENATOR
FROM A VERY SMALL
I AM A SENATOR FROM
A VERY SMALL STATE.
STATE. BUT WHAT I
THINK HAS HAPPENED IN
BUT WHAT I THINK HAS HAPPENED IN
THE LAST 3-4 MONTHS IS PEOPLE
ALL OVER THIS COUNTRY ARE
RESPONDING TO OUR MESSAGE AND
THAT MESSAGE IS THAT GOVERNMENT
HAS TO WORK FOR ALL OF US, NOT
HAS TO WORK FOR ALL OF US,
NOT JUST THE HANDFUL OF
JUST THE HANDFUL
OF BILLIONAIRES.
BILLIONAIRES. >> Ifill:
DONALD TRUMP, WHO
>> Ifill: DONALD TRUMP, WHO
BRINGS SENSATION WITH HIM
WHEREVER HE GOES, THIS TIME
WHEREVER HE GOES, THIS
TIME BROUGHT A HELICOPTER.
BROUGHT A HELICOPTER. THAT,
COMBINED WITH HILLARY
THAT, COMBINED WITH HILLARY
CLINTON'S APPEARANCE EARLIER THE
BIZARRE POLITICAL ECOSYSTEM.
>> THEY'RE SMART.
>> THEY'RE SMART. LET'S
GIVE THEM A HELICOPTER
LET'S GIVE THEM A
HELICOPTER RIDE!
RIDE! >> I APOLOGIZE,
WE LEFT THE
>> I APOLOGIZE, WE LEFT
THE HELICOPTER AT HOME.
HELICOPTER AT HOME. >>
Ifill: A CROWD IMMEDIATELY
>> Ifill: A CROWD IMMEDIATELY
GATHERED WHEN WE PULLED SANDERS
GATHERED WHEN WE
PULLED SANDERS ASIDE.
ASIDE. >> I THINK
WHAT THIS CAMPAIGN IS
>> I THINK WHAT THIS CAMPAIGN IS
ABOUT IS THE AMERICAN PEOPLE ARE
GROWING EXTREMELY UNHAPPY WITH
ESTABLISHMENT POLITICS, WITH
ESTABLISHMENT ECONOMICS.
AND YOU KNOW WHAT ELSE?
AND YOU KNOW WHAT ELSE? EVEN
WITH ESTABLISHMENT MEDIA.
EVEN WITH ESTABLISHMENT
MEDIA. >> Ifill: NO!
>> Ifill: NO! SANDERS
SUPPORTERS DESCENDED ON
SANDERS SUPPORTERS DESCENDED ON
THE FAIR FROM THROUGHOUT IOWA,
BUT ALSO FROM SURROUNDING
BUT ALSO FROM
SURROUNDING STATES.
STATES. SHARONA AND
SAMUEL BLAKE, BOTH
SHARONA AND SAMUEL BLAKE, BOTH
VETERANS OF THE LIBERAL OCCUPY
MOVEMENT, DROVE THREE HOURS
FROM KANSAS CITY TO SIGN UP
FROM KANSAS CITY TO
SIGN UP SUPPORTERS.
SUPPORTERS. >> I
GREW UP IN A UNION
>> I GREW UP IN A UNION
HOUSEHOLD, SO I CAN SUPPORT THAT
HE'S GETTING WE'RE BOTH VETERANS
HE'S GETTING WE'RE BOTH
VETERANS OF THE U.S. NAVY.
OF THE U.S. NAVY. AND
WE THINK SUPPORTING THE
AND WE THINK SUPPORTING THE
VETERANS MEANS NOT MAKING MORE
VETERANS BY NOT SUPPORTING MORE
VETERANS BY NOT SUPPORTING
MORE WARS OVERSEAS.
WARS OVERSEAS. >> Ifill:
TRUMP ORGANIZERS SAY
>> Ifill: TRUMP ORGANIZERS SAY
THEY ARE DOUBLING DOWN IN IOWA,
BUT SO FAR HAVE OPENED ONLY ONE
BUT SO FAR HAVE OPENED
ONLY ONE STATE OFFICE.
STATE OFFICE. BUT
CELEBRITY HAS ITS OWN
BUT CELEBRITY HAS
ITS OWN ADVANTAGES.
ADVANTAGES. IS THERE
AN ANTI-ESTABLISHMENT
IS THERE AN ANTI-ESTABLISHMENT
ELEMENT TO THIS TOO?
ELEMENT TO THIS TOO? BERNIE
SANDERS IS GETTING THAT
BERNIE SANDERS IS GETTING
THAT ON THE LEFT.
ON THE LEFT. >> I WOULD
SAY WHAT YOU ARE
>> I WOULD SAY WHAT YOU ARE
SEEING IN BOTH PARTIES.
SEEING IN BOTH PARTIES. I
CAN'T NECESSARILY SPEAK FOR
I CAN'T NECESSARILY SPEAK
FOR THE DEMOCRAT PARTY.
THE DEMOCRAT PARTY. BUT I
THINK A LOT OF WHAT YOUR
BUT I THINK A LOT OF WHAT YOUR
SEEING, ITS NOT POLITICS AS
SEEING, ITS NOT POLITICS
AS USUAL ANYMORE.
USUAL ANYMORE. AND
PEOPLE ARE REALLY TIRED
AND PEOPLE ARE REALLY TIRED
ABOUT HOW POLITICS HAS BEEN
ABOUT HOW POLITICS
HAS BEEN DONE.
DONE. AND ITS REFRESHING.
AND ITS REFRESHING. A LOT
OF PEOPLE FEEL THAT THIS
A LOT OF PEOPLE FEEL THAT THIS
IS THE ELECTION THAT YOU'LL SEE
SOMEONE THAT'S NOT A POLITICIAN
STEP FORWARD, WHICH WE HAVE
ALREADY DONE, AND IS GOING TO
TAKE CONTROL AND BE THE NEXT
TAKE CONTROL AND BE THE
NEXT LEADER OF OUR COUNTRY.
LEADER OF OUR COUNTRY.
>> Ifill: BUT ARE VOTERS
ENGAGED, OR SIMPLY CURIOUS?
IOWA VOTERS HAVE A LONG HISTORY
OF FAVORING INSURGENTS AND
UNKNOWNS, AT LEAST EARLY ON.
UNKNOWNS, AT LEAST EARLY ON. THE
IOWA PRECINCT CAUCUSES NEXT
THE IOWA PRECINCT CAUCUSES
NEXT FEBRUARY ARE AN IMPORTANT
FEBRUARY ARE AN IMPORTANT
SPRINGBOARD TO THE PRIMARY
SEASON, BUT THERE ARE NO
SEASON, BUT THERE
ARE NO GUARANTEES.
GUARANTEES. RONALD REAGAN?
RONALD REAGAN? GEORGE H.W. BUSH?
GEORGE H.W. BUSH? BILL CLINTON?
BILL CLINTON? THEY
ALL LOST HERE.
THEY ALL LOST HERE.
NATURALLY, THE STATE FAIR HAS
ITS OWN POLL, WITH CORN KERNELS
ITS OWN POLL, WITH CORN
KERNELS USED TO CAST VOTES.
USED TO CAST VOTES. THE REAL
POLLS SHOW SANDERS IN A
THE REAL POLLS SHOW SANDERS IN
A SOLID SECOND PLACE IN IOWA,
SOLID SECOND PLACE IN IOWA,
WHILE IN NEW HAMPSHIRE-- NEXT
DOOR TO HIS HOME STATE OF
VERMONT-- ONE RECENT POLL HAS
VERMONT-- ONE RECENT
POLL HAS HIM AHEAD.
HIM AHEAD. ARTHUR
SANDERS, A POLITICAL
ARTHUR SANDERS, A POLITICAL
SCIENCE PROFESSOR AT DRAKE
UNIVERSITY-- NO RELATION TO THE
SENATOR-- WATCHES ALL THE FUSS
WITH AN EXPERT'S AMUSEMENT.
HE SUSPECTS THE SANDERS AND
TRUMP SURGES ARE SUMMER
TRUMP SURGES ARE
SUMMER ROMANCES.
ROMANCES. >> Ifill:
DOES AUGUST BEAR ANY
>> Ifill: DOES AUGUST BEAR ANY
RESEMBLANCE TO WHAT WE ARE GOING
RESEMBLANCE TO WHAT WE ARE
GOING TO SEE IN FEBRUARY?
TO SEE IN FEBRUARY? >> NO.
>> NO. >> Ifill: TELL
ME WHAT YOU MEAN?
>> Ifill: TELL ME WHAT YOU MEAN?
>> WELL ON THE DEMOCRATIC SIDE
THE ANSWER IS PARTLY, PROBABLY
YES BECAUSE THE CONTOURS OF THAT
YES BECAUSE THE CONTOURS OF
THAT RACE IS RELATIVELY CLEAR.
RACE IS RELATIVELY CLEAR.
YOU'VE GOT A DISTINCTIVE FRONT
YOU'VE GOT A DISTINCTIVE
FRONT RUNNER.
RUNNER. YOU'VE GOT A SIGNIFICANT
YOU'VE GOT A SIGNIFICANT
CHALLENGE ON THE LEFT.
CHALLENGE ON THE LEFT. ON THE
REPUBLICAN SIDE, YOU HAVE
ON THE REPUBLICAN SIDE, YOU
HAVE AN UNPRECEDENTED AMOUNT OF
AN UNPRECEDENTED
AMOUNT OF CANDIDATES.
CANDIDATES. WE HAVE
17 PEOPLE RUNNING.
WE HAVE 17 PEOPLE RUNNING.
THE DISTANCE BETWEEN SECOND
PLACE AND NINTH PLACE, MIGHT BE
TWO PERCENT ON CAUCUS NIGHT.
>> Ifill: COLLEGE STUDENT
ALLYSHA BILGES WILL CAST HER
FIRST VOTE EVER, FOR SANDERS.
SHE WAS NOT OLD ENOUGH TO VOTE
SHE WAS NOT OLD ENOUGH TO
VOTE FOR BARACK OBAMA.
FOR BARACK OBAMA. >> IT'S
DIFFERENT BECAUSE WITH
>> IT'S DIFFERENT BECAUSE
WITH OBAMA THERWAS E CHANGE.
OBAMA THERWAS E CHANGE. I
COULD SENSE THERE WOULD BE
I COULD SENSE THERE
WOULD BE CHANGE.
CHANGE. BUT WITH BERNIE
THERE IS... IT'S
BUT WITH BERNIE THERE IS... IT'S
GOING TO BE A LASTING EFFECT FOR
GOING TO BE A LASTING
EFFECT FOR ALL OF US.
ALL OF US. IT'S A RANDOM
GUY THAT HONESTLY
IT'S A RANDOM GUY THAT HONESTLY
I HAD NO IDEA ABOUT COMING TO A
I HAD NO IDEA ABOUT
COMING TO A STATE FAIR.
STATE FAIR. HE SAYS
THINGS AND I FEEL LIKE
HE SAYS THINGS AND I FEEL
LIKE HE'S BEING REAL.
HE'S BEING REAL. HE'S
BEING 100% HONEST.
HE'S BEING 100% HONEST. >>
Ifill: SANDERS HAS BEEN
>> Ifill: SANDERS HAS BEEN
DRAWING THE LARGEST CROWDS OF
THE CAMPAIGN-- TENS OF THOUSANDS
IN THREE NIGHTS ON THE WEST
COAST LAST WEEK, AND HERE IN
COAST LAST WEEK,
AND HERE IN IOWA.
IOWA. A MIDWAY-CLOGGING
CROWD THAT
A MIDWAY-CLOGGING CROWD THAT
OUTNUMBERED THE TURNOUT FOR BOTH
CLINTON AND TRUMP THE SAME DAY.
SO HOW DO YOU TRANSLATE THAT
ANGER, THAT UNHAPPINESS THAT
YOU'RE SEEING WHEN YOU TRAVEL
INTO SOMETHING THAT WILL
ACTUALLY ALLOW YOU TO WIN THE
ACTUALLY ALLOW YOU TO
WIN THE NOMINATION?
NOMINATION? >> YOU GUYS WITH ME?
>> YOU GUYS WITH
ME? (CHEERS)
(CHEERS) >> Ifill:
JUST UNDER SIX MONTHS
>> Ifill: JUST UNDER SIX MONTHS
FROM NOW, THE SUMMER ROMANCES
WILL BE TESTED, ON A COLD AND
LIKELY SNOWY CAUCUS NIGHT ACROSS
LIKELY SNOWY CAUCUS
NIGHT ACROSS IOWA.
IOWA. BUT IT'S NOT
SNOWY OR COLD HERE
BUT IT'S NOT SNOWY
OR COLD HERE YET.
YET. AND MORE
CANDIDATES HIT THE FAIR
AND MORE CANDIDATES HIT THE FAIR
TODAY, INCLUDING SCOTT WALKER,
CARLY FIORINA AND LINDSEY
CARLY FIORINA AND
LINDSEY GRAHAM.
GRAHAM. SO THE
PARTY'S JUST GETTING
SO THE PARTY'S JUST
GETTING STARTED.
STARTED. JUDY?
JUDY? >> Woodruff:
AS CANDIDATES WALK
>> Woodruff: AS CANDIDATES WALK
THE MIDWAY IN IOWA, THEY ALSO
ARE MAKING SOME NATIONAL MOVES.
AMONG THEM, DONALD TRUMP
RELEASED HIS FIRST NATIONAL
POLICY PAPER YESTERDAY, ON
POLICY PAPER YESTERDAY,
ON IMMIGRATION.
IMMIGRATION. SOUNDS
LIKE A PERFECT TIME FOR
SOUNDS LIKE A PERFECT
TIME FOR POLITICS MONDAY.
POLITICS MONDAY. JOINING
US THIS WEEK ARE AMY
JOINING US THIS WEEK ARE AMY
WALTER OF THE "COOK POLITICAL
REPORT" AND REPORTER TAMARA
REPORT" AND REPORTER
TAMARA KEITH OF NPR.
KEITH OF NPR. G GWEN, TALKINTO
G GWEN, TALKINTO
PERSON-YEAR SANDERS IN THE
PERSON-YEAR SANDERS IN
THE MIDDLE OF THE CROWD.
MIDDLE OF THE CROWD. BUT
WHAT DO YOU MAKE, AMY,
BUT WHAT DO YOU MAKE, AMY,
OF THIS MOTION, TALKING
ABOUT A SUMMER POLITICAL
ROMANCE, IT'S GOING TO FADE
ROMANCE, IT'S GOING TO
FADE BY THE TIME FALL AND
BY THE TIME FALL AND
ESPECIALLY WINTER ROLLS
AROUND AND PEOPLE GO TO VOTE
AROUND AND PEOPLE GO TO
VOTE FOR SANDERS AND TRUMP.
FOR SANDERS AND TRUMP. HOW
DO WE KNOW THESE TWO MEN
HOW DO WE KNOW THESE TWO MEN
DON'T HAVE STAYING POWER.
>> THERE IS SOMETHING TO
>> THERE IS SOMETHING TO THAT.
THAT. WE DONE KNOW THAT.
WE DONE KNOW THAT. BUT
WE CAN LOOK BACK AT
BUT WE CAN LOOK BACK AT
HISTORY AND YOU SEE SUMMER
HISTORY AND YOU SEE
SUMMER IS FOR DATEDDING.
IS FOR DATEDDING. AND
WINTER IS FOR MATING,
AND WINTER IS FOR MATING,
OKAY, IF WE WANT TO THINK OF
OKAY, IF WE WANT TO THINK
OF IT IN THAT WAY.
IT IN THAT WAY. WHICH
IS IF YOU LOOK AT
WHICH IS IF YOU LOOK AT
WHERE WE WERE AT THIS POINT
IN 2011, OR EVEN A LITTLE
LATER IN THE SEASON, YOU
STILL HAD A LARGE PERCENTAGE
OF VOTERS WHO NOT ONLY WERE
THEY UNDECIDED, BUT THEY
WERE SAYING THAT, YOU KNOW,
ELECT ABILITY ISN'T THE MOST
IMPORTANT ISSUE FOR ME.
THE ISSUE IS THE MOST
IMPORTANT OR THE PERSONALITY
IS MOST IMPORTANT.
IS MOST IMPORTANT. AS YOU
GOT CLOSER AND CLOSER
AS YOU GOT CLOSER AND CLOSER
TO THE ELECTION, YOU SAW
ELECT ABILITY BECOMING A
MORE IMPORTANT FACTOR.
MORE IMPORTANT FACTOR. AND
I-- SO WE KNOW IN PAST
AND I-- SO WE KNOW IN PAST
PLACES THAT'S GOING TO BE
PLACES THAT'S GOING TO BE TRUE.
TRUE. I THINK THE STRONGER THAT
I THINK THE STRONGER THAT
HILLARY CLINTON LOOKS OR THE
HILLARY CLINTON LOOKS OR
THE STRONGER THAT THE
STRONGER THAT THE
POSSIBILITY OF REPUBLICANS
NOT WINNING THE WHITE HOUSE,
THE MORE ELECTABILITY
BECOMES IMPORTANT TO VOTERS
AS THEY START TO GO TO THE
AS THEY START TO
GO TO THE POLLS.
POLLS. >> Woodruff:
SO TAMARA, IF
>> Woodruff: SO TAMARA, IF
YOU ASK SANDERS OR TRUMP,
THEY WILL SAY THEY DO HAVE
THEY WILL SAY THEY
DO HAVE ELECTABLE.
ELECTABLE. SO HOW
DO WE KNOW THAT
SO HOW DO WE KNOW
THAT THEY'RE WRONG?
THEY'RE WRONG? >> WE
DON'T NECESSARILY KNOW
>> WE DON'T NECESSARILY
KNOW THAT THEY ARE WRONG.
THAT THEY ARE WRONG. YOU
KNOW, THAT SUMMER LOVIN',
YOU KNOW, THAT SUMMER LOVIN',
YOU DON'T KNOW IN THE MIDST
OF IT WHETHER IT IS THE REAL
DEAL OR WHETHER IT'S JUST A
DEAL OR WHETHER IT'S
JUST A SUMMER FLING.
SUMMER FLING. BUT YOU
KNOW, AS AMY HAS
BUT YOU KNOW, AS AMY HAS
SAID, ASK PRESIDENT MICHELE
SAID, ASK PRESIDENT
MICHELE BACH MANN.
BACH MANN. REALLY
WITH IOWA, TYPICALLY,
REALLY WITH IOWA, TYPICALLY,
IT'S ALL ABOUT TIMING YOUR
IT'S ALL ABOUT TIMING YOUR PEAK.
PEAK. A LOT OF CANDIDATES HAVE
A LOT OF CANDIDATES HAVE TIMED
THEIR PEAKS JUST RIGHT,
TIMED THEIR PEAKS JUST RIGHT,
PEOPLE LIKE JOHN KERRY OR
RICK SANTORUM, WHO WERE JUST
SORT OF PRODUCTING ALONG AND
THEY JUST HIT IT RIGHT AT
THEY JUST HIT IT RIGHT
AT THE RIGHT MOMENT.
THE RIGHT MOMENT. >>
Suarez: AND THE -- DID
>> Suarez: AND THE -- DID SHALL.
SHALL. >> THE
ELECTABILITY IS NOT
>> THE ELECTABILITY IS NOT
ARE THEY GOING TO WIN THE
REPUBLICAN NOMINATION, BUT
DONALD TRUMP, APPROVAL
RATINGS AMONG REGULAR VOTE
ARES IS OFF THE CHARTS.
ARES IS OFF THE CHARTS. SO
THE IDEA OF HIM BEING THE
SO THE IDEA OF HIM BEING THE
STANDARD-BEARER FOR THE
PARTY IS GOING TO BE A
CONSIDERATION AS WE GO
THROUGH THE PROCESS.
THROUGH THE PROCESS. >>
Woodruff: WELL, ONE THING
>> Woodruff: WELL, ONE THING
HE IS DOING CLEARLY TO GET
HIMSELF TAKEN MORE SERIOUSLY
IS HE STARTED TO RELEASE A
IS HE STARTED TO RELEASE
A POLICY PAPER.
POLICY PAPER. HE PUT
ONE OUT OVER THE
HE PUT ONE OUT OVER THE
WEEKEND, YESTERDAY
ONMEETMEET ON IM-- ON "MEET
ONMEETMEET ON IM--
ON "MEET THE PRESS".
THE PRESS". ONE ON IMMIGRATION.
ONE ON IMMIGRATION. HE
SAID HE WOULD FORCE
HE SAID HE WOULD FORCE
MEXICANS TO PAY FOR A HUGE
MEXICANS TO PAY FOR A
HUGE WALL AT THE BORDER.
WALL AT THE BORDER.
THERE WHAT BE NO MORE
AUTOMATIC BIRTH RIGHT
CITIZENSHIP, BIG CONTROVERSY
ABOUT THAT BECAUSE IF THERE
IS LANGUAGE TO THAT IN THE
IS LANGUAGE TO THAT
IN THE CONSTITUTION.
CONSTITUTION. AND FINALLY
HE WOULD STEP UP
AND FINALLY HE WOULD STEP
UP THE DEPORTATION OF ALL
THE DEPORTATION OF ALL
UNDOCUMENTED RESIDENTS,
ADULTS AND CHILDREN.
ADULTS AND CHILDREN. SO
TAMARA, YOU KNOW, WHAT IS
SO TAMARA, YOU KNOW, WHAT IS
THIS-- THIS IS A PRETTY THIS
IS THE MOST CONSERVATIVE
POSITION, WE THINK, FOR ALL
POSITION, WE THINK, FOR
ALL THE REPUBLICANS, 17
THE REPUBLICANS, 17
REPUBLICANS RUNSMENT WHAT
REPUBLICANS RUNSMENT
WHAT DOES IT MEAN?
DOES IT MEAN? IS
IT SMART FOR HIM
IS IT SMART FOR HIM
POLITICALLY AND WHAT DOES IT
POLITICALLY AND WHAT DOES
IT MEAN FOR THE OTHER
MEAN FOR THE OTHER
CANDIDATES HE'S RUNNING
CANDIDATES HE'S RUNNING AGAINST.
AGAINST. >> HE'S
ALSO SAYING THAT HE
>> HE'S ALSO SAYING THAT HE
WOULD SEIZE REMITTANCES.
THESE ARE THE PAYMENTS THAT
PEOPLE HERE IN THIS COUNTRY
SEND BACK TO THEIR FAMILIES
SEND BACK TO THEIR
FAMILIES IN MEXICO.
IN MEXICO. THAT WOULD BE HUGELY
THAT WOULD BE HUGELY
UNPOPULAR WITH A LOT OF
PEOPLE WHO ACTUALLY VOTE
HERE IN THIS COUNTRY.
AND SO IT IS A VERY
CONSERVATIVE POLICY.
CONSERVATIVE POLICY. BUT
IT IS ALSO BRINGING
BUT IT IS ALSO BRINGING
ALONG OTHER CANDIDATES.
SCOTT WALKER HAS SAID WELL,
SCOTT WALKER HAS SAID WELL, I
DIDN'T READ WHAT TRUMP PUT
I DIDN'T READ WHAT TRUMP PUT
OUT BUT IT SEEMS LIKE WE'RE
IN LINE WITH EACH OTHER.
RICK SANTORUM IS GOING TO
COME OUT WITH A POLICY LATER
COME OUT WITH A POLICY
LATER THIS WEEK.
THIS WEEK. BEN CARSON
IS NOW GOING ON A
BEN CARSON IS NOW GOING ON
A TOUR OF THE BORDER LATER
TOUR OF THE BORDER
LATER THIS WEEK.
THIS WEEK. SO DONE ALL TRUMP BY
SO DONE ALL TRUMP BY
RELEASING THIS POSITION
PAPER IS IN SOME WAYS
PAPER IS IN SOME WAYS GUIDING
THE CONVERSATION, AT
GUIDING THE CONVERSATION, AT
LEAST FOR THAT PORTION OF
LEAST FOR THAT PORTION
OF THE REPUBLICAN FIELD.
THE REPUBLICAN FIELD. >>
Woodruff: MOVING HIM TO
>> Woodruff: MOVING HIM TO
THE RIGHT, GOOD FOR THE
THE RIGHT, GOOD FOR THE PARTY?
PARTY? >> WELL, I THINK THE
>> WELL, I THINK THE
DIVIDING LINE HAS BEEN THERE
DIVIDING LINE HAS BEEN
THERE NOW FOR A WHILE WITH
NOW FOR A WHILE
WITH REPUBLICANS.
REPUBLICANS. AND
THAT'S WHAT MAKES THIS
AND THAT'S WHAT MAKES THIS
FIGHT SO FASCINATING RIGHT
FIGHT SO FASCINATING RIGHT NOW.
NOW. THE PRIMARY FIGHT, THAT IS.
THE PRIMARY FIGHT, THAT IS.
BECAUSE YOU DO HAVE TWO VERY
DISTINCT CAMPS HERE IN THE
DISTINCT CAMPS HERE IN
THE REPUBLICAN PARTY.
REPUBLICAN PARTY. ONE
THAT SAID WE NEED TO
ONE THAT SAID WE NEED TO
BROADEN OUR BASE, WE NEED TO
MAKE SURE WE DON'T ALIENATE
LATINO, FASTEST GROWING
GROUP OF VOTERS.
GROUP OF VOTERS. ANOTHER
SIDE SAYING WE NEED
ANOTHER SIDE SAYING WE NEED
TO STICK VERY STRONGLY ON
IMMIGRATION REFORM, WE CAN'T
IMMIGRATION REFORM, WE
CAN'T CEDE ANY GROUND.
CEDE ANY GROUND. DONE
ALL TRUMP IS IN THE
DONE ALL TRUMP IS IN THE
WE'RE NOT GOING TO CEDE ANY
GROUND, JEB BUSH, RUBBIO,
KASICH IN THE DON'T CEDE ANY
GROUND-- I MEAN THE MORE
COMPROMISED POSITION THAT IS
COMPROMISED POSITION THAT
IS MORE POPULAR IN GENERAL
MORE POPULAR IN GENERAL
ELECTION, NOT AS POPULAR IN
ELECTION, NOT AS POPULAR
IN A PRIMARY ELECTION.
A PRIMARY ELECTION. THE
ISE FSUOR DONALD TRUMP,
THE ISE FSUOR DONALD TRUMP,
OF COURSE, IS ALL THOSE
THINGS YOU JUST SAID, JUDY,
NONE OF THOSE ARE GOING
TO WHAT, THEY ARE NOT
PLAUSIBLE, THEY'RE NOT
PLAUSIBLE, THEY'RE NOT POSSIBLE.
POSSIBLE. IT CANNOT HAPPEN.
IT CANNOT HAPPEN. BUT
THAT DOESN'T MATTER.
BUT THAT DOESN'T MATTER.
POLITICALLY SPEAKING, IT
POLITICALLY SPEAKING,
IT CANNOT HAPPEN.
CANNOT HAPPEN. BUT FOR
REPUBLICAN PRIMARY
BUT FOR REPUBLICAN PRIMARY
VOTERS, THOSE ARE ISSUES
VOTERS, THOSE ARE
ISSUES THAT RESONATE.
THAT RESONATE. >>
Woodruff: ALL RIGHT.
>> Woodruff: ALL RIGHT.
SPEAKING OF ISSUES AND
WHETHER THEY RESONATE,
HILLARY CLINTON TODAY WAS
DISCLOSED IN A FILING, A
COURT FILING BY THE STATE
DEPARTMENT THAT THEY HAVE
NOW IDENTIFIED AS MANY AS
300 OF HILLARY CLINTON'S
E-MAILS THAT WERE IN
QUESTION, PART OF THIS WHOLE
SERVER CONTROVERSY THAT
COULD-- COULD, NOT DO, BUT
COULD CONTAIN CLASSIFIED
COULD CONTAIN
CLASSIFIED INFORMATION.
INFORMATION. NOW THIS
WEEKEND, TAMARA,
NOW THIS WEEKEND, TAMARA,
HILLARY CLINTON WAS JOKING
AT ONE POINT, TALKING ABOUT
HAVING A NEW SNAPCHAT
HAVING A NEW SNAPCHAT ACCOUNT
AND SAYING YOU KNOW,
ACCOUNT AND SAYING YOU KNOW,
IT'S GREAT, BECAUSE THOSE
MESSAGES DISAPPEAR RIGHT
MESSAGES DISAPPEAR RIGHT AWAY.
AWAY. IS IT SMART FOR HER TO BE
IS IT SMART FOR HER TO BE
IS THIS SOMETHING THAT WE
THINK COULD HURT HER OR NOT?
THINK COULD HURT HER OR
NOT? >> THIS IS ABSOLUTELY
>> THIS IS ABSOLUTELY
SOMETHING THAT IS NAGGING ON
SOMETHING THAT IS NAGGING
ON HER CAMPAIGN.
HER CAMPAIGN. YOU
KNOW, EVERY WEEK SHE
YOU KNOW, EVERY WEEK SHE
RELEASES NEW POLICY PROPOSALS
AND EVERY WEEK THERE IS A
NEW STORY ABOUT THE E-MAILS
NEW STORY ABOUT THE
E-MAILS THAT IN MANY WAYS
THAT IN MANY WAYS
OVERSHADOWS IT.
OVERSHADOWS IT. IF
YOU WERE JUST LIKE A
IF YOU WERE JUST LIKE A
CASUAL OBSERVER, NOT REALLY
PAYING ATTENTION, NOT
READING EDITORIAL, BOARD
EDITORIALS, YOU WOULD THINK
THAT HILLARY CLINTON'S
ENTIRE CAMPAIGN WAS ABOUT
HER E-MAIL SERVER AND THE
PROBLEMS WITH THE E-MAIL
PROBLEMS WITH THE E-MAIL SERVER.
SERVER. AND YOU
WOULDN'T FOE ABOUT
AND YOU WOULDN'T FOE ABOUT
HER EDUCATION POLICY
PROPOSAL, YOU WOULDN'T KNOW
ABOUT THIS TOWN HALL THAT
ABOUT THIS TOWN HALL
THAT SHE ADH, ABOUT DRUG
SHE ADH, ABOUT DRUG ADDICTION
AND HOW SHE THINKS
ADDICTION AND HOW SHE THINKS
IT'S GOING TO BE A BIG ISSUE
IT'S GOING TO BE A BIG
ISSUE IN HER CAMPAIGN.
IN HER CAMPAIGN. YOU
JUST WOULDN'T KNOW
YOU JUST WOULDN'T KNOW
BECAUSE IT IS CONSTANTLY
GETTING DROWNED OUT BY THE
GETTING DROWNED OUT
BY THE E-MAIL.
E-MAIL. >> AND YOU
HAVE JOE BIDEN
>> AND YOU HAVE JOE BIDEN
NOW, RELIABLY REPORTED
SERIOUSLY THINKING ABOUT IT.
>> AND THIS IS ANOTHER ISSUE
HERE, IS THAT WHILE HILLARY
CLINTON IS BEING NAGGED BY
THIS ISSUE, AND THERE IS TO
DOUBT THAT THIS IS GOING TO
BE AN ISSUE IN THE GENERAL
ELECTION, IT'S NOT AT THIS
POINT HURTING HER AMONG
POINT HURTING HER
AMONG PRIMARY VOTERS.
PRIMARY VOTERS. HER
SUPPORT AMONG DEMOCRATS
HER SUPPORT AMONG DEMOCRATS
IS AS ROCK SOLID TODAY AS IT
WAS LAST MONTH AS IT WAS TWO
WAS LAST MONTH AS IT
WAS TWO MONTHS AGO.
MONTHS AGO. THERE
IS NOT A NATURAL
THERE IS NOT A NATURAL
OPENING RIGHT NOW FOR JOE
OPENING RIGHT NOW FOR JOE BIDEN.
BIDEN. AND THAT IS
GOING TO HAVE TO
AND THAT IS GOING TO HAVE TO
BE A VERY BIG CONCERN FOR
BE A VERY BIG CONCERN FOR HIM.
HIM. >> Woodruff: SO SEPARATING
>> Woodruff: SO SEPARATING
WHAT'S REAL, WHAT IS A REAL
WHAT'S REAL, WHAT IS A
REAL WORRY AND WHAT ISN'T.
WORRY AND WHAT
ISN'T. BUT HE IS --
BUT HE IS -- >> BUT
THERE IS A REAL
>> BUT THERE IS A REAL WORRY.
WORRY. I THINK THE
REAL WORRY FOR
I THINK THE REAL WORRY FOR
DEMOCRATS IS THIS ISN'T JUST
A SCANDAL THAT IS IT IS A
NAGGING THING, BUT THERE IS
AN ACTUAL HONEST TO GOODNESS,
WHETHER SMOKING GUN, OR
INVESTIGATION, LEGAL PROBLEM
THAT COULD MAKE HER
UNELECTABLE IN THE FALL AND
THERE IS NOT A SECOND CHOICE
RIGHT WNO FOR DEMOCRATS.
>> Woodruff: AND IT'S NOT
WRAPPING UP ANY TIME SOON.
>> THERE IS NO WRAPPING UP.
>> AND THE E-MAILS WILL KEEP
COMING OUT FOR THE NEXT
MANY, MANY MONTHS, NEVER
MIND ANY SORT OF CONTROVERSY
THAT BLOWS UP AROUND THEM.
THAT BLOWS UP AROUND THEM. >>
Woodruff: POLITICS MONDAY,
>> Woodruff: POLITICS MONDAY,
TAMARA KEITH, AMY WALTER,
GREAT TO HAVE YOU BOTH,
GREAT TO HAVE YOU
BOTH, THANK YOU.
THANK YOU. >> THANKS, JUDEY.
>> THANKS, JUDEY. -- JUDY.
>> Woodruff: IT'S BEEN 12 DAYS
SINCE AN ACCIDENT AT A DEFUNCT
COLORADO GOLD MINE FOULED RIVERS
COLORADO GOLD MINE FOULED
RIVERS IN THREE STATES.
IN THREE STATES. SPECIAL
CORRESPONDENT KATHLEEN
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT KATHLEEN
McCLEERY HAS AN UPDATE ON THE
IMPACT THE SPILL HAS HAD ON
NATIVE AMERICANS AND OTHERS IN
NATIVE AMERICANS AND OTHERS
IN NORTHWEST NEW MEXICO.
NORTHWEST NEW MEXICO. >>
Reporter: THE SUNFLOWERS IN
>> Reporter: THE SUNFLOWERS IN
UPPER FRUITLAND, NEW
MEXICO ARE DROOPING.
DROOPING. >> WHEN YOU
LOOK AT THEM NOW,
>> WHEN YOU LOOK AT THEM NOW,
THEY'RE ALL HANGING OVER BECAUSE
THEY'RE ALL HANGING OVER
BECAUSE THEY NEED WATER.
THEY NEED WATER. >>
Reporter: ON LORENZO BATES
>> Reporter: ON LORENZO BATES
FARM, IT'S NOT JUST SUNFLOWERS
IN TROUBLE-- THE ALFALFA, KEY
FOR FEEDING HIS ANIMALS, IS
FOR FEEDING HIS
ANIMALS, IS STUNTED.
STUNTED. >> THIS IS
RIGHT NOW, 12 DAYS
>> THIS IS RIGHT
NOW, 12 DAYS BEHIND.
BEHIND. THIS HAY HAS
TO GET ME THROUGH
THIS HAY HAS TO GET ME THROUGH
THE WINTER SEASON TO BE ABLE TO
>> Reporter: BATES, THE SPEAKER
OF THE NAVAJO NATION, TALLIED
HIS LOSSES SO FAR AT $1,000 IN
JUST ONE WEEK-- NO SMALL AMOUNT
JUST ONE WEEK-- NO SMALL
AMOUNT IN THIS POOR REGION.
IN THIS POOR REGION. IT'S
ALL BECAUSE BATES, AND
IT'S ALL BECAUSE BATES, AND
THOUSANDS OF OTHERS HERE,
COULDN'T PULL WATER FROM THE SAN
JUAN RIVER WHICH ABUTS HIS LAND.
IRRIGATION DITCHES WERE SHUT
DOWN AFTER THE MINE ACCIDENT
EARLIER THIS MONTH 100 MILES
NORTH IN SILVERTON, COLORADO.
EFFORTS BY THE ENVIRONMENTAL
PROTECTION AGENCY TO CLEAN UP
ONE MINE RESULTED IN A BREACH AT
ONE MINE RESULTED IN A BREACH
AT ANOTHER: THE GOLD KING MINE
ANOTHER: THE GOLD KING MINE
WHICH HAS BEEN INACTIVE SINCE
WHICH HAS BEEN
INACTIVE SINCE 1923.
1923. A THREE MILLION
GALLON TOXIC
A THREE MILLION GALLON TOXIC
STEW OF HEAVY METALS POURED
DOWNREAMST, TURNING THE ANIMAS
RIVER A SHOCKING YELLOW.
RIVER A SHOCKING YELLOW. THE
ANIMAS FLOWS SOUTH AND MEETS
THE ANIMAS FLOWS SOUTH AND MEETS
THE SAN JUAN IN FARMINGTON, NEW
THE SAN JUAN IN
FARMINGTON, NEW MEXICO.
MEXICO. THEN, IT
SNAKES NORTH INTO UTAH
THEN, IT SNAKES NORTH INTO UTAH
WHERE IT SKIRTS THE UPPER EDGE
OF THE NAVAJO RESERVATION.
EVENTUALLY, IT TURNS SOUTH INTO
ARIZONA AND ENDS UP IN A BRANCH
OF LAKE POWELL, A JOURNEY OF
OF LAKE POWELL, A JOURNEY
OF NEARLY 500 MILES.
NEARLY 500 MILES. AMONG
THOSE HARDEST HIT ARE THE
AMONG THOSE HARDEST HIT ARE THE
NAVAJOS, THE NATION'S LARGEST
NATIVE AMERICAN TRIBE.
NATIVE AMERICAN TRIBE. 300,000
OF THEM ARE SPREAD OUT
300,000 OF THEM ARE SPREAD OUT
ON A RESERVATION LARGER THAN 10
ON A RESERVATION
LARGER THAN 10 STATES.
STATES. THE CHAPTER
IN SHIPROCK, NAMED
THE CHAPTER IN SHIPROCK,
NAMED FOR ITS ENORMOUS ROCK
FOR ITS ENORMOUS ROCK
OUTCROPPING, HAS ISSUED WARNINGS
OUTCROPPING, HAS ISSUED
WARNINGS TO ITS MEMBERS.
TO ITS MEMBERS. >> STAY
AWAY FROM THE RIVER.
>> STAY AWAY FROM THE RIVER.
DO NOT USE THE RIVER WATER FOR
DO NOT USE THE RIVER
WATER FOR ANYTHING.
ANYTHING. >> Reporter:
CHILI YAZZIE IS THE
>> Reporter: CHILI YAZZIE
IS THE CHAPTER PRESIDENT.
CHAPTER PRESIDENT. HE'S
COORDINATING WATER
HE'S COORDINATING WATER
DELIVERIES TO TRIBE MEMBERS.
>> THERE ARE MANY LIVESTOCK
OWNERS THAT RELY ON THE RIVER
FOR WATER FOR THEIR LIVESTOCK.
AS THE LOCAL GOVERNMENT, WE
BEGAN DELIVERING WATER TO AT
LEAST THOSE LIVESTOCK ANIMALS
LEAST THOSE LIVESTOCK
ANIMALS HERE.
HERE. >> Reporter:
AN ALPHABET SOUP OF
>> Reporter: AN ALPHABET SOUP
OF STATE, FEDERAL AND LOCAL
STATE, FEDERAL AND LOCAL
AGENCIES ARE WORKING WITH
NAVAJOS AND OTHER FARMERS AND
RANCHERS TO EVALUATE THE PROBLEM
RANCHERS TO EVALUATE THE
PROBLEM AND FIX IT.
AND FIX IT. PUBLIC
MEETINGS HAPPEN NEARLY
PUBLIC MEETINGS HAPPEN NEARLY
EVERY DAY, WHERE ORDINARY
CITIZENS CAN TAKE CONCERNS
DIRECTLY TO OFFICIALS.
DIRECTLY TO OFFICIALS. >>
I HAVE TO SAY, I WANT TO
>> I HAVE TO SAY, I WANT TO
BELIEVE YOU, BUT I'M NOT
COMFORTABLE WITH THE IDEAS OF
CLEANING A DITCH AFTER THE
CLEANING A DITCH
AFTER THE SEASON.
SEASON. >> THIS IS
NOT SOMETHING THAT
>> THIS IS NOT SOMETHING
THAT WAS INTENTIONALLY DONE.
WAS INTENTIONALLY DONE. >>
Reporter: MARK HAYES IS THE
>> Reporter: MARK HAYES IS THE
ON SITE COORDINATOR FOR THE
ON SITE COORDINATOR
FOR THE E.P.A.:
E.P.A.: >> THIS HAS
DEEPLY AND GREATLY
>> THIS HAS DEEPLY AND GREATLY
IMPACTED A LOT OF PEOPLE AND,
AND PUT A LOT OF PEOPLE AT AN
AND PUT A LOT OF PEOPLE
AT AN INCONVENIENCE.
INCONVENIENCE. SO YOU
CAN IMAGINE THAT THE
SO YOU CAN IMAGINE THAT THE
FRUSTRATION THAT COMES OUT OF
FRUSTRATION THAT
COMES OUT OF THAT.
THAT. IT'S DEFINITELY A CONCERN,
IT'S DEFINITELY A CONCERN,
THERE'S DEFINITELY A SENSE OF
URGENCY THAT WE'RE TRYING TO GET
URGENCY THAT WE'RE TRYING
TO GET THIS HANDLED.
THIS HANDLED. >> Reporter:
THE AGENCY, WHICH
>> Reporter: THE AGENCY, WHICH
ORDINARILY INVESTIGATES
ENVIRONMENTAL DISASTERS, HAS
TAKEN RESPONSIBILITY FOR THIS
TAKEN RESPONSIBILITY
FOR THIS ONE.
ONE. ADMINISTRATOR
GINA McCARTHY:
ADMINISTRATOR GINA McCARTHY:
>> THIS IS A TRAGIC INCIDENT.
I AM ABSOLUTELY DEEPLY SORRY
THAT THIS EVER HAPPENED, BUT I
WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT WE REACT
POSITIVELY, AND IN A WAY THAT'S
CREDIBLE, AND WE MOVE THIS
CREDIBLE, AND WE
MOVE THIS FORWARD.
FORWARD. >> Reporter:
BUT THAT'S NOT
>> Reporter: BUT THAT'S NOT
ENOUGH FOR NEW MEXICO GOVERNOR
SUSANA MARNEZ,TI WHO SURVEYED
THE SCENE LAST WEEK.
THE SCENE LAST WEEK. >>
WE CERTAINLY EXPECT THE
>> WE CERTAINLY EXPECT THE
E.P.A. TO PAY FOR EVERY BIT OF
THE COSTS FOR THIS CATASTROPHE.
THEY CAUSED IT, THEY PAY FOR IT.
>> Reporter: THE GOVERNOR HAS
THREATENED LEGAL ACTION AGAINST
THE E.P.A., AS HAVE NAVAJO
THE E.P.A., AS HAVE
NAVAJO LEADERS.
LEADERS. >> IT'S A
GIVEN THAT FOLKS ARE
>> IT'S A GIVEN THAT FOLKS ARE
GOING TO SUE THE, THE U.S.
GOING TO SUE THE,
THE U.S. E.P.A.
E.P.A. SO PRESIDENT
OBAMA IS GOING TO
SO PRESIDENT OBAMA IS GOING TO
BE THE ONE THAT'S GOING TO END
UP AT SOME POINT IN TIME,
POSSIBLY SIGNING A CHECK.
POSSIBLY SIGNING A CHECK. THE
QUESTION IS, HOW BIG IS THAT
THE QUESTION IS, HOW BIG
IS THAT CHECK GOING TO BE?
CHECK GOING TO BE? >>
Reporter: SETTLING PONDS HAVE
>> Reporter: SETTLING PONDS HAVE
REDUCED THE CONTAMINATION FOR
REDUCED THE
CONTAMINATION FOR NOW.
NOW. THE GOLD KING
MINE IS FAR FROM
THE GOLD KING MINE
IS FAR FROM UNIQUE.
UNIQUE. THERE ARE A HALF MILLION
THERE ARE A HALF MILLION
ABANDONED MINES AROUND THE
COUNTRY, MORE THAN 20,000 IN
COUNTRY, MORE THAN 20,000
IN COLORADO ALONE.
COLORADO ALONE. SOME
ARE ACTIVELY LEAKING
SOME ARE ACTIVELY LEAKING
DANGEROUS CHEMICALS.
DANGEROUS CHEMICALS. A
NATIONWIDE CLEAN UP COULD COST
A NATIONWIDE CLEAN UP COULD
COST AS MUCH AS $50 BILLION,
AS MUCH AS $50 BILLION,
ACCORDING TO THE E.P.A..
ACCORDING TO THE E.P.A.. BACK
ON THE SAN JUAN RIVER, THE
BACK ON THE SAN JUAN RIVER, THE
GOLDEN HUE HAS DISSIPATED.
GOLDEN HUE HAS DISSIPATED. >>
WE'RE DOING NOW IS MEASURING
>> WE'RE DOING NOW IS MEASURING
THE ELECTRICAL CONDUCTIVITY, THE
MINERAL CONTENT OF THE RIVER
MINERAL CONTENT OF
THE RIVER WATER.
WATER. >> Reporter:
STATE SCIENTIST
>> Reporter: STATE SCIENTIST
DENNIS McQUILLAN HAS RUN TESTS
COMPARING RIVER WATER WITH WATER
COMPARING RIVER WATER WITH
WATER FROM NEARBY WELLS.
FROM NEARBY WELLS. >> WHAT
THIS TELLS US IS THAT
>> WHAT THIS TELLS US IS THAT
THIS WELL HAS GROUNDWATER, NOT
THIS WELL HAS GROUNDWATER,
NOT RIVER WATER.
RIVER WATER. THIS WELL
HAS NOT BEEN TOUCHED
THIS WELL HAS NOT BEEN TOUCHED
BY THE CONTAMINATION IN THE
BY THE CONTAMINATION
IN THE RIVER.
RIVER. AND THIS IS A
REALLY GOOD THING.
AND THIS IS A REALLY GOOD THING.
>> Reporter: THAT ALLOWED STATE
OFFICIALS TO GIVE AN ALL-CLEAR
TO RESUME DRINKING WELL WATER.
SATURDAY NIGHT, THEY BEGAN
SCHEDULING IRRIGATION AND LIFTED
THE BAN ON RECREATIONAL USE OF
THE BAN ON RECREATIONAL
USE OF THE RIVER.
THE RIVER. BUT THEY
ADVISED RESIDENTS TO
BUT THEY ADVISED RESIDENTS TO
WASH WITH SOAP AFTER CONTACT
WITH THE WATER AND WARNED
AGAINST EATING ANY OF THE FISH.
BUT THE NAVAJOS, A SOVEREIGN
NATION, HAVEN'T LIFTED THEIR
NATION, HAVEN'T LIFTED
THEIR RESTRICTIONS.
RESTRICTIONS. MANY ARE
WORRIED ABOUT THE LONG
MANY ARE WORRIED ABOUT THE LONG
TERM ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF THE
TERM ENVIRONMENTAL
IMPACT OF THE SPILL.
SPILL. >> SOMETIMES
WHEN YOU LOOK AT
>> SOMETIMES WHEN YOU LOOK AT
THE RIVER, IT SEEMS LIKE NORMAL.
BUT WHAT HAS SETTLED, BUT WHAT
SOLIDS HAVE SETTLED TO THE
SOLIDS HAVE SETTLED TO
THE BOTTOM OF THE RIVER.
BOTTOM OF THE RIVER. >>
Reporter: AND THOSE SOLIDS
>> Reporter: AND THOSE SOLIDS
COULD BE ROILED UP IN A HEAVY
COULD BE ROILED UP
IN A HEAVY STORM.
STORM. PROTECTING
AND PRESERVING THE
PROTECTING AND PRESERVING THE
RIVER IS ESPECIALLY IMPORTANT
FOR THE NAVAJOS, WHO'VE LIVED
HERE FOR MORE THAN 600 YEARS,
AND FOR WHOM, THE LAND AND WATER
HAVE VERY SPECIAL MEANING.
HAVE VERY SPECIAL MEANING. >>
THE WATER AND THE LAND ARE
>> THE WATER AND THE LAND ARE
VERY CENTRAL TO OUR, TO OUR WAY
OF LIFE, NOT ONLY PHYSICALLY BUT
OF LIFE, NOT ONLY
PHYSICALLY BUT SPIRITUALLY.
SPIRITUALLY. WE ARE IN
A STATE OF MOURNING,
WE ARE IN A STATE OF MOURNING,
IT'S LIKE LOSING SOMEBODY.
>> Reporter: I'M KATHLEEN
McCLEERY FOR THE PBS NEWSHOUR ON
THE NAVAJO RESEATIORVN IN NORTH
THE NAVAJO RESEATIORVN IN
NORTH WEST NEW MEXICO.
>> Woodruff: STAY WITH US,
COMING UP ON THE NEWSHOUR:
COMING UP ON THE NEWSHOUR: YOUNG
GIRLS IN THE WEST CHOOSE A
YOUNG GIRLS IN THE WEST CHOOSE A
LIFE OF JIHAD FOR THE ISLAMIC
LIFE OF JIHAD FOR
THE ISLAMIC STATE.
STATE. AND, TARGETING
STUDENTS WITH
AND, TARGETING STUDENTS WITH
LOWER FAMILY IOME NCTO PREVENT
LOWER FAMILY IOME NCTO
PREVENT COLLEGE DROPOUTS.
COLLEGE DROPOUTS. BUT
FIRST, A LOOK AT THE
BUT FIRST, A LOOK AT THE
CONCERNS SOME U.S. COMPANIES ARE
CONCERNS SOME U.S. COMPANIES
ARE STARTING TO VOICE OVER THE
STARTING TO VOICE OVER THE
GROWING COSTS OF CERTAIN
PRESCRIPTION MEDICINES, AND WHAT
THOSE COSTS MIGHT MEAN FOR THE
HEALTH CARE PLANS THEY OFFER
HEALTH CARE PLANS THEY
OFFER THEIR EMPLOYEES.
THEIR EMPLOYEES. HARI
SREENIVASAN HAS THAT.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS THAT.
>> Srennivasan: A NEW SURVEY
FINDS THAT MORE THAN HALF OF
LARGE U.S. EMPLOYERS WILL
MORE TIGHTLY MANAGE THEIR
EMPLOYEES'S USE OF
PRESCRIPTION DRUGS NEXT
PRESCRIPTION DRUGS NEXT YEAR.
YEAR. SOME OF THESE DRUGS,
SOME OF THESE DRUGS,
ESPECIALLY THOSE USED TO
ESPECIALLY THOSE USED
TO TREAT CANCER, HIV AN
TREAT CANCER, HIV AN
HEPATITIS C CAN COST $10,000
PER MONTH AND ARE RISING AT
DOUBLE DIGIT ANNUAL RATES.
THE INCREASED EXPENSES
THREATEN TO PUSH SOME
EMPLOYER HEALTH-CARE PLANS
OVER A THRESHOLD SET BY THE
OVER A THRESHOLD SET BY
THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT.
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT. MAKING
THEM SUBJECT TO A 40%
MAKING THEM SUBJECT TO A 40%
TAX FOR SO-CALLED CADILLA
TAX FOR SO-CALLED
CADILLA PLAN TAX.
PLAN TAX. THE C.E.O.
OF THE NATIONAL
THE C.E.O. OF THE NATIONAL
BUSINESS GROUP ON HEALTH
WHICH DID THE SURVEY IS HERE
TO EXPLAIN THE FINDINGS.
SO FOR THOSE OF US WHO
HAVEN'T BEEN PAYING
ATTENTION TO THE AFFORDABLE
CARE AGO TOO CLOSELY, A
REFRESHER ON THE CADILLAC
REFRESHER ON THE
CADILLAC PLAN TAX.
PLAN TAX. >> SURE.
>> SURE. THE CADILLAC TAX IS A
THE CADILLAC TAX IS A
PROVISION OF THE AFFORDABLE
PROVISION OF THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT.
CARE ACT. AND IT IS
AN EXCISE TAX, 40%
AND IT IS AN EXCISE TAX, 40%
EXCISE TAX, HIGH COST HEALTH
EXCISE TAX, HIGH
COST HEALTH PLANS.
PLANS. BEGINNING IN 2018.
BEGINNING IN 2018. AND
BY HIGH COST HEALTH
AND BY HIGH COST HEALTH
PLANS, IT'S INTENDED TO
PLANS, IT'S INTENDED TO FOCUS
ON THE GENEROUS PLANS,
FOCUS ON THE GENEROUS PLANS,
THE RICH PLANS, THE PLANS
THAT HAVE LOW DEDUCTIBLES,
THAT HAVE LOW
DEDUCTIBLES, COCOA PAYS.
COCOA PAYS. THE
INTENT BEING IF YOU
THE INTENT BEING IF YOU
DISCOURAGE PARTICIPATION IN
HIGH COST PLANS, YOU CAN
HIGH COST PLANS, YOU
CAN SLOW THE GROWTH OF
SLOW THE GROWTH OF
HEALTH-CARE COSTS, AND THEY
COULD USE THE TAXES TO HELP
FINANCE COVERAGE IN PUBLIC
FINANCE COVERAGE IN
PUBLIC EXCHANGES.
EXCHANGES. >>
Srennivasan: IT'S NOT
>> Srennivasan: IT'S NOT
JUST THE PLAN FOR THE WELL
TO DO ANY MORE, RIGHT.
BECAUSE YOU CAN GET TO A
HIGH COST PLAN DEPENDING ON
HIGH COST PLAN DEPENDING
ON LOTS OF THINGS LIKE THE
LOTS OF THINGS LIKE THE
PEOPLE YOU INSURANCE IN YOUR
PEOPLE YOU INSURANCE
IN YOUR COMPANY.
COMPANY. >> THAT'S RIGHT.
>> THAT'S RIGHT. I THINK
THAT THE CADILLAC
I THINK THAT THE CADILLAC
TAX IS REALLY A TAX ON ALL
PLANS AT THE END OF THE DAY.
PLANS AT THE END OF THE
DAY. AND HAD THERE ARE MANY
AND HAD THERE ARE MANY
FACTORS THAT DRIVE THE COST
FACTORS THAT DRIVE THE
COST OF A HEAL PLAN.
OF A HEAL PLAN. AND YOU
TALK ABOUT THE COST
AND YOU TALK ABOUT THE COST
OF A HEALTH PLAN, YOU ARE
REALLY TALKING ABOUT FOR THE
REALLY TALKING ABOUT FOR
THE MOST PART THE PREMIUM.
MOST PART THE PREMIUM. THE
PREMIUM THAT YOU PAY AS
THE PREMIUM THAT YOU PAY AS
AN EMPLOYEE, THE PREMIUM
THAT THE COMPANY PLAYS, THE
THAT THE COMPANY PLAYS,
THE COMBINATION.
COMBINATION. WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT THE
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT THE PREMIUM.
PREMIUM. AND WHERE
YOU LIVE, THE AGE
AND WHERE YOU LIVE, THE AGE
OF YOUR WORKFORCE, CAN HAVE
AS MUCH OR EVEN MORE OF A
FACTOR IN DETERMINING THE
COST OF THE PLAN THAN THE
GENEROSITY OF THE PLAN.
GENEROSITY OF THE PLAN. >>
Srennivasan: SO WHAT DID
>> Srennivasan: SO WHAT
DID YOUR SURVEY FIND?
YOUR SURVEY FIND? WHAT
IS HAPPENING, ALMOST
WHAT IS HAPPENING, ALMOST
LIKE AN UNINTENDED
CONSEQUENCE OF THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT?
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT? >>
WELL, NEARLY HALF OF
>> WELL, NEARLY HALF OF
EMPLOYERS BELIEVE THAT BY
2018 WHEN THE TAX GOES INTO
EFFECT, IF THEY DO NOTHING
ELSE TO CONTROL THE COST OF
THEIR PLANS, AT LEAST ONE OF
THEIR PLANS WILL TRIGGER THE
THEIR PLANS WILL TRIGGER
THE CADILLAC TAX.
CADILLAC TAX. THE MORE
INTERESTING THING
THE MORE INTERESTING THING
IS THAT IN THE NEXT DECADE,
ALL THE COMPANIES BELIEVE
THAT NEARLY ALL OF THEIR
TAX FOR THE REASONSHE
TAX FOR THE REASONSHE WE
JUST SKRUBED THERE ONE
WE JUST SKRUBED THERE ONE
OTHER PROBLEM OR CHALLENGE
WITH THE CADILLAC TAX THE
WAY IT'S STRUCTURED AND THE
WAY IT'S INDEXED AM AND
INDEXING THE COST, THERE IS
AN INDIVIDUAL MAXIMUM AND A
AN INDIVIDUAL MAXIMUM
AND A FAMILY MAXIMUM.
FAMILY MAXIMUM.
INDIVIDUALS $10,200.
FAMILY IS $27,500.
FAMILY IS $27,500. AND
THOSE ARE INDEXED OVER
AND THOSE ARE INDEXED OVER
TIME TO GROW BECAUSE COSTS
TIME TO GROW BECAUSE
COSTS INCREASE.
INCREASE. BUT IT
IS INDEXED TO THE
BUT IT IS INDEXED TO THE
CONSUMER PRICE INDEX WHERE
HEALTH-CARE COSTS INCREASES
AT A MUCH FASTER RATE OR
HIGHER RATE, AT LEAST TWICE
THE CONSUMER PRICE INDEX.
SO EVEN THE MODERATE PLANS
OVER TIME WILL EVENTUALLY
HIT THE CADILLAC TAX.
HIT THE CADILLAC TAX. AND
THAT'S THE CHALLENGE.
AND THAT'S THE CHALLENGE.
>> Srennivasan: SO
HEALTH-CARE COSTS AS YOU
MENTIONED CLIMB REGARDLESS
OF THE CONSUMER PRICE INDEX.
BUT SOME OF THESE DRUGS, THE
PRICE OF THE MEDICATION IS
PRICE OF THE MEDICATION
IS GROWING AT 25%, 50%,
GROWING AT 25%, 50%,
YEAR-OVER-YEAR.
YEAR-OVER-YEAR. THAT'S
SOMETHING THAT NO
THAT'S SOMETHING THAT NO
PLAN HAS BUDGETED FOR.
>> I THINK THE CHALLEGEN
WE'RE SEEING IS THAT
SPECIALTY PHARMACY
MEDICATIONS AND BY SPECIALTY
PHARMACY MEDICATIONS, I MEAN
PHARMACY MEDICATIONS, I
MEAN THEY'RE COMPLEX DRUGS.
THEY'RE COMPLEX DRUGS. THEY
ARE FOR THINGS LIKE MS
THEY ARE FOR THINGS LIKE
MS OR CANCER OR HIV OR
OR CANCER OR HIV OR
HEPATITIS C WHICH GOT A LOT
OF ATTENTION LAST YEAR.
THEY ARE COMPLEX, TYPICALLY
IN TERMS OF HOW THEY ARE
IN TERMS OF HOW THEY
ARE ADMINISTERED.
ADMINISTERED. THEY CAN
BE VERY EXPENSIVE.
THEY CAN BE VERY EXPENSIVE.
THEY MAY BE-- THEY NEED
SPECIAL HANDLING BECAUSE
THEY MAY NEED BE TO
REFRIGERATED, WHATEVER THE
REFRIGERATED, WHATEVER THE CASE.
CASE. AND EMPLOYEES NEED TO BE
AND EMPLOYEES NEED TO BE
MONITORED BECAUSE OF SIDE
EFFECTS, DOESAGE CHANGES AND
EFFECTS, DOESAGE
CHANGES AND THE LIKE.
THE LIKE. SO THERE
IS A LOT OF COMPLEX
SO THERE IS A LOT OF COMPLEX
ABILITY AROUND THESE
DRUGSMENT BUT THEY CAN BE
VERY HIGH COST AND EMPLOYERS
IN THE SURVEY SAID THAT
SPECIALTY PHARMACY HAS
JUMPED TO THE NUMBER TWO
DRIVER OF THEIR OVERALL
MEDICAL TREND.
MEDICAL TREND. NOW THE
INTERESTING THING
NOW THE INTERESTING THING
ESPECIALLY PHARMACY ONLY
AFFECTS ABOUT 3 OR 4% OF
AFFECTS ABOUT 3 OR 4%
OF THEIR POPULATION.
THEIR POPULATION. >>
Srennivasan: BUT THE MOST
>> Srennivasan: BUT THE
MOST EXPENSIVE 3 OR 4%.
EXPENSIVE 3 OR 4%. >> YES.
>> YES. SO IT WILL
CROSS TRAICIAN
SO IT WILL CROSS TRAICIAN
DIDDAL FARMEE BY 2018.
>> Srennivasan: WHAT ARE
COMPANIES DOING ABOUT THIS?
>> THEY ARE REALLY STARTING
TO FOCUS ON HOW YOU MANAGE
THE SPECIALTY PHARMACY
THE SPECIALTY PHARMACY COSTS.
COSTS. SO THEY ARE CONTRACTING
SO THEY ARE CONTRACTING
EITHER WITH AN INDEPENDENT
SPECIALTY PHARMACY MANAGER
OR A SPECIALTY PHARMACY
GROUP WITHIN A PRESCRIPTION
BENEFIT MANAGEMENT COMPANY
THAT THEY ALREADY HAVE.
THAT THEY ALREADY HAVE. BUT
IT'S A FOCUSED EFFORT TO
BUT IT'S A FOCUSED EFFORT TO
REALLY MANAGE BOTH WHO IS
GETTING THE MEDICATIONS,
MAKING SURE IT'S APPROPRIATE,
MAKING SURE THE DOSAGE IS
MAKING SURE THE DOSAGE
IS APPROPRIATE.
APPROPRIATE. AND ALSO
MAKING SURE SITE OF
AND ALSO MAKING SURE SITE
OF CARE IS APPROPRIATE.
CARE IS APPROPRIATE.
BECAUSE THERE COULD BE A
WIDE VARIATION OF PRICE
DEPENDING ON WHERE YOU GO TO
HAVE THAT DRUG ADMINISTERED.
>> Srennivasan: I ALSO HEAR
A LOT MORE ABOUT HEALTH
SAVING ACCOUNTS TYPES PLANS
COMING INTO WORKPLACES.
COMING INTO WORKPLACES. WHAT
ARE EMPLOYEES LIKELY TO
WHAT ARE EMPLOYEES LIKELY
TO SEE MORE OF AS COMPANIES
SEE MORE OF AS COMPANIES
START TO PREPARE FOR THIS
START TO PREPARE FOR
THIS CADILLAC TAX?
CADILLAC TAX? >> THERE
HAS ALREADY BEEN A
>> THERE HAS ALREADY BEEN A
SIGNIFICANT MIGRATION OVER
THE LAST FIVE YEARS OR SO OF
COMPANIES MOVING TO THESE
CONSUMER DIRECTED PLANS,
THEE HIGH DEDUCTIBLE PLANS.
BY HIGH DEDUCTIBLE I MEAN
1300 INDIVIDUAL DEDUCTIBLE,
2600 FAMILY DEDUCTIBLE, TIED
2600 FAMILY DEDUCTIBLE,
TIED TO A SAVINGS ACCOUNT.
TO A SAVINGS ACCOUNT. AND
MANY OF OUR COMPANIES
AND MANY OF OUR COMPANIES
PUT IN MORE THAN HALF OF
THAT DEDUCTIBLE OF VALUE
INTO THE SAVINGS ACCOUNT.
THEY SEE THOSE ACCOUNTS TO
HELP DEFRAY SOME OF THE
COSTS SO YOU SEE THAT
COSTS SO YOU SEE THAT MIGRATION.
MIGRATION. I WOULD
SAY ABOUT 8 O-- 80%
I WOULD SAY ABOUT 8 O-- 80%
OF COMPANIES OFFER THEM AS A
OF COMPANIES OFFER THEM AS
A CHOICE ALREADY BUT THE
CHOICE ALREADY BUT THE
INTERESTING THING IS WE SEE
A BIG JUMP IN THE NUMBER OF
COMPANIES THAT HAVE GONE TO
COMPANIES THAT HAVE GONE
TO A OPTION ONLY CONSUMER
A OPTION ONLY CONSUMER
DIRECTED PLAN, THE ONLY
OPTION THEY WILL OFFER
OPTION THEY WILL
OFFER EMPLOYEES.
EMPLOYEES. >>
Srennivasan: THANKS SOME
>> Srennivasan: THANKS
SOME OF FOR JOINING US.
OF FOR JOINING US.
>> MY PLEASURE.
>> Woodruff: LAST WEEK ON THE
PROGRAM, WE HEARD ABOUT THE
ISLAMIC STATE'S PRACTICE OF
INSTITUTIONALIZED SEXUAL SLAVERY
INSTITUTIONALIZED SEXUAL
SLAVERY OF NON-MUSLIM WOMEN.
OF NON-MUSLIM WOMEN. TONIGHT,
WE FOCUS ON ANOTHER NEW
TONIGHT, WE FOCUS ON ANOTHER NEW
YORK TIMES REPORT ABOUT THREE
SEEMINGLY NORMAL AND HIGH
PERFORMING TEENAGE GIRLS WHO
WILLINGLY LEFT THEIR HOMES IN
WILLINGLY LEFT THEIR HOMES
IN GREAT BRITAIN TO JOIN THE
GREAT BRITAIN TO JOIN
THE TERRORIST GROUP.
TERRORIST GROUP. WE BEGIN
WITH A VIDEO EXCERPT
WE BEGIN WITH A VIDEO EXCERPT
WHICH SHOWS THE FAMILY OF ONE OF
THE GIRLS GRAPPLING FOR ANSWERS.
>> THIS IS KADIZA'S ROOM.
SHE IS VERY ORGANIZED.
SHE IS VERY ORGANIZED. SHE--
ON THE NIGHT SHE LEFT.
SHE-- ON THE NIGHT SHE LEFT.
>> THIS WAS KADIZA SULTANA'S
HOME IN LONDON BEFORE SHE
HOME IN LONDON BEFORE
SHE LEFT TO JOIN ISIS.
LEFT TO JOIN ISIS.
HER SISTER HAS BEEN
DEVASTATED EVER SINCE KADIZA
DEVASTATED EVER SINCE
KADIZA DISAPPEARED.
DISAPPEARED. >> .
>> . SHE SELECTED-- WE WENT TO
SHE SELECTED-- WE WENT TO
BANGLADESH THERE 2009.
BANGLADESH THERE 2009. >>
THE QUESTION WE ASKED THE
>> THE QUESTION WE ASKED THE
POLICE, THEY HAVEN'T GOT IT
POLICE, THEY HAVEN'T
GOT IT FOR US REALLY.
FOR US REALLY. >>
KADIZA WAS 16 AND A
>> KADIZA WAS 16 AND A
STRAIGHT A STUDENT AT THIS
STRAIGHT A STUDENT
AT THIS SCHOOL.
SCHOOL. ONE MORNING SHE TOLD HER
ONE MORNING SHE TOLD HER
MOTHER SHE WAS LEAVING TO
MOTHER SHE WAS LEAVING TO STUDY.
STUDY. BUT SHE NEVER RETURNED.
BUT SHE NEVER RETURNED.
THE NEXT TIME THE FAMILY
KADIZA WAS ON THE NEWS.
>> INTERNATIONAL HUNT FOR
THREE YOUNG GIRLS BELIEVED
TO BE ON THEIR WAY TO JOIN
TO BE ON THEIR WAY TO JOIN ISIS.
ISIS. >> AT GATWICK THEY BORED A
>> AT GATWICK THEY BORED A
TURKISH AIRNE PLILANE FOR
TURKISH AIRNE PLILANE
FOR ISTANBUL.
ISTANBUL. >> POLICE
ARE IN TURKEY
>> POLICE ARE IN TURKEY
TRYING TO FIND THEM.
TRYING TO FIND THEM. >>
THE GIRLS WEREN'T EVEN
>> THE GIRLS WEREN'T EVEN OLD
ENOUGH TO DRIVE BUT THEY
OLD ENOUGH TO DRIVE BUT THEY
TRAVELED THOUSANDS OF MILES
TRAVELED THOUSANDS OF
MILES TO SYRIA AND HANDED
TO SYRIA AND HANDED
THEMSELVES OVER TO ISIS.
>> Woodruff: JOIN
>> Woodruff: JOIN >>
Woodruff: AND JOINING ME NOW
>> Woodruff: AND JOINING ME NOW
IS THE REPORTER ON FROM THE CLIP
WE JUST SAW, "NEW YORK TIMES"
VIDEO JOURNALIST MONA EL-NAGGAR,
AND STEVEN SIMON, A VISITING
LECTURER AT DARTMOUTH COLLEGE.
HE SERVED ON THE NATIONAL
SECURITY COUNCIL STAFF DURING
SECURITY COUNCIL STAFF
DURING THE OBAMA AND CLINTON
THE OBAMA AND CLINTON
ADMINISTRATIONS.
ADMINISTRATIONS. >>
Woodruff: MONA EL-NAGGAR
>> Woodruff: MONA EL-NAGGAR
AN STEVEN SIMON, WELCOME TO
AN STEVEN SIMON,
WELCOME TO YOU BOTH.
YOU BOTH. MONA,
TELL ME ABOUT THE
MONA, TELL ME ABOUT THE
PROCESS OF REPORTING THIS
STORY WHERE YOU HAD TO GET
TO KNOW THAT FAMILY, GET
INSIDE THAT COMMUNITY.
INSIDE THAT COMMUNITY. >> SURE.
>> SURE. WELL, IT
TOOK A LOT OF TIME.
WELL, IT TOOK A LOT OF TIME.
YOU KNOW, WE-- THIS IS A
COMMUNITY THAT ONE, ON THE
ONE HAND IT'S ALARMED BY THE
STORY OF THESE THREE GIRLS.
AN ON THE OTHER HAND THEY
ALSO FEEL THERE IS A VERY
STRONG SENSE OF FEELING THAT
THEY ARE UNDER ATTACK, THAT
THEY ARE, YOU KNOW, THAT
THEY ARE BEING SEENED AND
VIEWED IN SUSPICION.
VIEWED IN SUSPICION. SO
IT'S VERY DIFFICULT TO
SO IT'S VERY DIFFICULT TO
SORT OF WIN THE TRUST OF
SORT OF WIN THE TRUST OF PEOPLE.
PEOPLE. AND THE
ONLY WAY TO DO IT
AND THE ONLY WAY TO DO IT WAS
TO REALLY SPEND TIME AND
WAS TO REALLY SPEND TIME AND
GET TO KNOW PEOPLE, GET TO
GET TO KNOW PEOPLE, GET
TO KNOW, TRY TO REACH THE
KNOW, TRY TO REACH THE
FAMILIES OF THE GIRLS AM BUT
ALSO REALLY JUST, YOU KNOW,
BE IN THE STREETS, HANG OUT
WITH THE PEOPLE, GET TO KNOW
WITH THE PEOPLE,
GET TO KNOW WHIS
WHIS TALK TO YOUNG PEOPLE, TALK
TALK TO YOUNG PEOPLE,
TALK TO OLDER PEOPLE.
TO OLDER PEOPLE. GO TO
THE MOSQUE, THE CENTER
GO TO THE MOSQUE, THE CENTER OF
THE COMMUNITY AND REALLYJUSTG
OF THE COMMUNITY AND REALLYJUSTG
TO UNDERSTAND SOME OF THE
FORCES BEHIND ALL OF THIS.
>> Woodruff: AND FROM THAT
DID YOU UNDERSTAND WHAT MADE
THESE YOUNG WOMEN VULNERABLE
TO THE APPEAL OF ISIS?
TO THE APPEAL OF ISIS? >>
WELL, IT'S A BIG QUESTION
>> WELL, IT'S A BIG
QUESTION TO ASK.
TO ASK. THE MOST
INTERESTING THING
THE MOST INTERESTING THING
HERE, THE ISSUE THAT WE'RE
TRAYING TO TACKLE IS NOT
JUST WHAT HAPPENED WITH
THESE SPECIFIC THREE GIRLS
BUT BASICALLY THE BIGGER,
BROADER FORCES THAT ARE
IMPACTING MANY OF THE YOUNG
PEOPLE IN THE COMMUNITY, AND
NOT JUST THESE THREE GIRLS.
PART OF THE REASON PEOPLE
WERE ALARMED BY THE FACT
THAT THEY LEFT AND JOINED
ISIS IS BECAUSE THEY RESELL
BEED THEIR DAUGHTERS AND
THEIR SIBLINGS AND THAT'S
SORT OF THE BIGGER QUESTION.
IS WHAT IS GOING ON WITH THE
IS WHAT IS GOING ON WITH
THE COMMUNITY IN GENERAL.
COMMUNITY IN GENERAL. AND
THIS IS A GENERATION
AND THIS IS A GENERATION
THAT IS BASICALLY GOING UP
THAT IS BASICALLY GOING
UP IN A POST 9/11 WORLD.
IN A POST 9/11 WORLD. THEIR
SENSE OF IDENTITY IS
THEIR SENSE OF IDENTITY IS
REALLY PULVERIZED-- POLARIZE.
GIRLS ARE MORE RELIGIOUSLY
DIFFERENT WHEN THEY WEAR THE
DIFFERENT WHEN THEY
WEAR THE HEAD SCARF.
HEAD SCARF. THEY FACE INCREASING
THEY FACE INCREASING
ISLAM-PHOBIA IN THE WEST.
THEY ARE GROWING UP AND
RAISED TO BECOME DEVOUT
MUSLIMS AT A TIME WHEN THE
DOMINANT SORT OF ISLAMIC
DISCOURSE IS VERY
CONSERVATIVE, LITERALIST
WAHABI SCHOOLSING IN A SENSE
PUTTING THEM AT ODDS IN THE
BIGGER WORLD THAT THEY ARE
BIGGER WORLD THAT THEY ARE IN.
IN. SO THEY ARE BEING PULLED IN
SO THEY ARE BEING PULLED IN
DIFFERENT DIRECTIONS AND
IT'S VERY HARD FOR TEENAGERS
TO SORT OF STRIKE A BALANCE
BETWEEN THESE DIFFERENT
CHOICES AND OFTEN TIMES THAT
CAN PUSH THEM TO AN EXTREME.
>> Woodruff: STEVEN SIMON,
WE SHOULD SAY ALL THREE OF
THESE YOUNG WOMEN WE KNOW
ARE NOW MARRIED TO FIGHTERS
WHO ARE PART OF THE ISLAMIC
WHO ARE PART OF THE
ISLAMIC STATE.
STATE. STEVEN SIMON, HOW MUCH IS
STEVEN SIMON, HOW MUCH IS
UNDERSTOOD ABOUT WHAT IS
GOING ON IN THESE MUSLIM
COMMUNITIES IN THE WEST?
>> WELL, IT'S DIFFICULT TO
>> WELL, IT'S DIFFICULT
TO GET ACCESS TO THESE
GET ACCESS TO THESE
COMMUNITIES, THE POINT THAT
IS USUALLY UNDERSCORED IN
CONVERSATIONS WITH EUROPEAN
LAW ENFORCEMENT AND
INTELLIGENCE OFFICIALS
BECAUSE THESE COMMUNITIES
ARE AS MONA SAID QUITE
ARE AS MONA SAID
QUITE CLOSELY NIT.
CLOSELY NIT. A LOT OF
THIS STUFF HAPPENS
A LOT OF THIS STUFF HAPPENS
IN THE ENVIRONMENT OF A
MOSQUE WHICH IS DIFFICULT TO
PEN STRAIGHT IF YOU ARE NOT
PART OF THE COMMUNITY.
PART OF THE COMMUNITY. SO
THINGS ARE A BIT MURKY.
SO THINGS ARE A BIT MURKY.
BUT I THINK THERE'S-- THE
GENERAL TREND IS FAIRLY WELL
GENERAL TREND IS FAIRLY
WELL UNDERSTOOD.
UNDERSTOOD. I DON'T
THINK IT'S A HUGE
I DON'T THINK IT'S
A HUGE MYSTERY.
MYSTERY. IN THE
CASE OF THESE YOUNG
IN THE CASE OF THESE YOUNG
WOMEN, I THINK WHAT WE JUST
HEARD WAS QUITE RIGHT,
NAMELY THAT WHAT IS PULLING
THESE YOUNG WOMEN TO SYRIA
IS THE SAME THING THAT PULLS
IS THE SAME THING
THAT PULLS YOUNG MEN.
YOUNG MEN. THERE'S
NOTHING, YOU KNOW,
THERE'S NOTHING, YOU KNOW,
SPECIFIC TO THE SITUATION OF
THESE WOMEN OR THEIR DESIRES
OR THEIR HABITS OR THEIR
PATTERNS OF THOUGHT THAT
DIFFERS ALL THAT MUCH IN
TERMS OF THEIR RECRUIT
ABILITY, THAT DIFFERS ALL
THAT MUCH FROM THEIR
THAT MUCH FROM THEIR BRETHREN.
BRETHREN. >> Woodruff:
MONA EL-NAGGAR,
>> Woodruff: MONA EL-NAGGAR,
AND A AGAIN WE SHOULD SAY
THAT THEY ESTIMATE 4,000
WESTERN YOUNG PEOPLE HAVE
JOINED ISIS, OF THAT MAYBE
500 AND SOME ARE WOMEN.
500 AND SOME ARE WOMEN. IS
THERE SOMETHING, IS THERE
IS THERE SOMETHING, IS THERE
A DIFFERENT ARGUMENT, A
DIFFERENT APPEAL MADE TO
DIFFERENT APPEAL MADE
TO WOMEN THAN TO MEN?
WOMEN THAN TO MEN? >>
WELL, WE'RE SEEING AN
>> WELL, WE'RE SEEING AN
UNPRECEDENTED NUMBER OF
WOMEN ACTUALLY GOING
COMPARED TO JIHADIES WHO
LEFT PREVIOUSLY FOR SAY
LEFT PREVIOUSLY FOR
SAY AFGHANISTAN.
AFGHANISTAN. I THINK
THE FACT THAT THE
I THINK THE FACT THAT THE
ISIS HAS GONE AS FAR AS
ISIS HAS GONE AS FAR
AS DECLARING SORT OF A
DECLARING SORT OF A
CALIPHATE AND HAVING THE
SORT OF THE PROPAGANDA THAT
IT HAS ON-LINE, ITS ABILITY
TO SORT OF REALLY CATER ITS
MESSAGE SPECIFICALLY TO
WOMEN IN WAYS THAT IT
COULDN'T BEFORE, THIS IS IN
FACT ATTRACTING AND YOU KNOW,
CREATING A BIGGER, WIDER
APPEAL FOR WOMEN THAN IT HAS
APPEAL FOR WOMEN
THAN IT HAS BEFORE.
BEFORE. >> STEVEN
SIMON, ARE THESE
>> STEVEN SIMON, ARE THESE
WOMEN ONCE THEY ARE THERE,
AS MUCH OF A THREAT AS THE
AS MUCH OF A THREAT
AS THE MEN ARE?
MEN ARE? OR ARE
THEY PLAYING A MORE
OR ARE THEY PLAYING A
MORE SUPPORTIVE ROLE.
SUPPORTIVE ROLE. >> YOU
KNOW, THEIR ROLL CAN
>> YOU KNOW, THEIR ROLL CAN
BE JUST AS VIE-AS THE ROLE
THAT MEN PLAY IN THE WAR.
THEY STAFF CHECK POINTS.
THEY GO ON HOUSE RAIDS.
THEY GO ON HOUSE RAIDS. THEY
ENFORCE MORALITY CODES.
THEY ENFORCE MORALITY
CODES. THEY MANAGE THE RAPE
THEY MANAGE THE RAPE BROTHELS.
BROTHELS. THEY DIRECT
VIOLENCE AGAINST
THEY DIRECT VIOLENCE AGAINST
TARGETS, MAYBE IN DIFFERENT
WAYS THAN MEN DO.
WAYS THAN MEN DO. BUT
JUST AS FERVENTLY.
BUT JUST AS FERVENTLY. YOU
KNOW, THIS IS SOMETHING
YOU KNOW, THIS IS SOMETHING
THAT'S BEEN GOING ON FOR A
THAT'S BEEN GOING ON
FOR A NUMBER OF YEARS.
NUMBER OF YEARS. AND
IT'S NOT JUST MUSLIM
AND IT'S NOT JUST
MUSLIM PHENOMENON.
PHENOMENON. LEBANESE
COMMUNISTS, KURDS,
LEBANESE COMMUNISTS, KURDS,
CHECHEN SEPARATISTS, TAMIL
TIGERS, HINDUS, THEY HAVE
TIGERS, HINDUS, THEY HAVE ALL
USED WOMEN AS TERRORISTS
ALL USED WOMEN AS TERRORISTS
OR TO PARTICIPATE IN VIOLENT
OR TO PARTICIPATE IN
VIOLENT INSURGENCYS.
INSURGENCYS. SO
NOTHING NEW ON THAT
SO NOTHING NEW ON THAT SCORE.
SCORE. >> Woodruff: BUT JUST
>> Woodruff: BUT JUST
FINALLY, MONA EL-NAGGAR, THE
SENSE JUST QUICKLY THAT ONCE
THEY'RE THERE THEY STAY?
THEY'RE THERE THEY STAY? >>
ONCE THEY ARE THERE, THEY
>> ONCE THEY ARE THERE, THEY
STAY, WITH THE CASE OF THESE
THREE GIRLS, WE KNOW THAT
THREE GIRLS, WE KNOW
THAT THEY'RE MARRIED.
THEY'RE MARRIED. AND
IT APPEARS LIKE THEY
AND IT APPEARS LIKE THEY
HAVE NO REGRETS, AT LEAST
NONE THAT THEY EXPRESSED SO
NONE THAT THEY EXPRESSED
SO FAR ABOUT GOING TO.
FAR ABOUT GOING TO. >>
Woodruff: AND THIS IS
>> Woodruff: AND THIS IS
DESPITE COMMUNICATIONS FROM
THEIR FAMILIES, I KNOW WHO
HAVE TRIED TO REACH THEM A
NUMBER OF TIMES AND TRIED TO
NUMBER OF TIMES AND TRIED
TO CHANGE THEIR MINDS.
CHANGE THEIR MINDS.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
>> ABSOLUTELY. >>
Woodruff: MONA EL-NAGGAR
>> Woodruff: MONA EL-NAGGAR
WITH "THE NEW YORK TIMES",
STEVEN SIMON OF DARTMOUTH,
WE THANK YOU BOTH.
WE THANK YOU BOTH. >> THANK YOU
>> Woodruff: NEXT TONIGHT, WE
BEGIN OUR SPECIAL WEEK-LONG
SERIES, "RETHINKING COLLEGE."
ACROSS THE COUNTRY THIS MONTH,
THOUSANDS OF STUDENTS WILL HEAD
THOUSANDS OF STUDENTS
WILL HEAD OFF TO COLLEGE.
OFF TO COLLEGE. BUT
STATISTICS SHOW THAT MANY
BUT STATISTICS SHOW THAT
MANY WILL NEVER MAKE IT TO
WILL NEVER MAKE IT TO
GRADUATION, A VAST NUMBER OF
THEM FROM LOW-INCOME FAMILIES.
THIS WEEK THE NEWSHOUR LOOKS AT
THIS WEEK THE NEWSHOUR LOOKS
AT FIVE EXPERIMENTS AIMED AT
FIVE EXPERIMENTS AIMED AT
CLOSING WHAT IS BEING CALLED
"THE GRADUATION GAP."
"THE GRADUATION GAP." WE
START WITH THE UNIVERSITY OF
WE START WITH THE UNIVERSITY
OF TEXAS AT AUSTIN.
TEXAS AT AUSTIN. >>
THERE IS A FORWARD
>> THERE IS A FORWARD
REACTION, ENDOTHERMIC.
REACTION, ENDOTHERMIC. >>
DAVID TEACHES CHEMISTRY
>> DAVID TEACHES CHEMISTRY
AT THE UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS
AT THE UNIVERSITY
OF TEXAS IN AUSTIN.
IN AUSTIN. >> YOU
WILL SEE A PROBLEM
>> YOU WILL SEE A PROBLEM
SIMILAR TO THIS ON THE TEST.
>> Reporter: BUT HIS MOST
VALUABLE EXPERIMENT LATELY
HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH
HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH SCIENCE.
SCIENCE. IT'S ABOUT
WHY SOME OF HIS
IT'S ABOUT WHY SOME OF HIS
STUDENTS SUCCEED AND WHY
STUDENTS SUCCEED AND
WHY OTHERS FAIL.
OTHERS FAIL. >> IT
OCCURRED TO ME THAT I
>> IT OCCURRED TO ME THAT I
HAD SPENT MANY DECADES OF
PIE LIFE AS A TEACHER NOT
PASSING STUDENTS.HOUGHT WOW, I
WAS RESPONSIBLE FOR LOTS OF
WAS RESPONSIBLE FOR LOTS
OF STUDENTS WHO FAILED.
STUDENTS WHO FAILED. ME,
I'M THE ONE WHO MADE
ME, I'M THE ONE WHO MADE
THEM NOT BECOME A DOCTOR.
I'M THE ONE WHO MADE THEM
NOT BECOME AN ENGINEER.
>> WHICH OF THE FOLLOWING
STATEMENTS OF FACT ARE TRUE
RTED HE TOOK A POSITION AS
VICE PROVOST AND DUG DEEP
NOT UNIVERSITY STUDENT
RECORDS TO CREATE A PROFILE
OF THE STUDENTS WHO DROPPED
OF THE STUDENTS WHO DROPPED OUT.
OUT. >> SO WHAT IS THE CORRECT
>> SO WHAT IS THE
CORRECT ANSWER?
ANSWER? >> Reporter:
WHAT HE FOUND
>> Reporter: WHAT HE
FOUND WAS STARTLING.
WAS STARTLING. THE BIG
DIFFERENCE WASN'T
THE BIG DIFFERENCE WASN'T
HOW HARD A STUDENT STUDIED
OR HOW WELL THEY DID IN HHIG
OR HOW WELL THEY DID
IN HHIG SCHOOL.
SCHOOL. THE MOST
IMPORTANT INDICATOR
THE MOST IMPORTANT INDICATOR
WAS A STUDENT'S HOUSEHOLD
WAS A STUDENT'S
HOUSEHOLD INCOME.
INCOME. >> SO IS
THERE A CORELATION
>> SO IS THERE A CORELATION
BETWEEN YOUR FAMILY INCOME
AND HOW WELL YOU DO IN
AND HOW WELL YOU DO IN COLLEGE?
COLLEGE? >> WHEN YOU LINE UP A
>> WHEN YOU LINE UP A
STUDENT MOST LIKELY TO
GRADUATE IN FOUR YEARS AND
LINE UP THE STUDENTS WHO
HAVE THE GREATEST ECONOMIC
NEED, THERE IS A SUBSTANTIAL
NEED, THERE IS A
SUBSTANTIAL CORELATION.
CORELATION. STUDENTS
WITH ECONOMIC NEED
STUDENTS WITH ECONOMIC
NEED HAVE A 30% CHANCE OF
HAVE A 30% CHANCE OF
GRADUATING IN FOUR YEARS.
>> NATIONAL STUDIES REFLECT
>> NATIONAL STUDIES
REFLECT THE SAME DIVIDE.
THE SAME DIVIDE.
STUDENTS FROM WEALTHY
FAMILIES GRADUATE AT MORE
THAN TWICE THE RATE OF
STUDENTS FROM POOR FAMILIES.
INCLUDING STUDENTS WHO
SHARED SAME SAT SCORES.
>> BEING AN OPTIMIST, I
THINK WE CAN FIX THAT.
THINK WE CAN FIX THAT. >>
Reporter: SO WHY DO LOW
>> Reporter: SO WHY DO LOW
INCOME STUDENTS DRONE OUT
EVEN WHEN FINANCIAL AID
CORNSHEIR T COSTS?
CORNSHEIR T COSTS? >>
LAUDI SAYS ONE OF THE
>> LAUDI SAYS ONE OF THE
MAJOR REASONS IS BECAUSE
THEY DON'T FEEL THEY FIT IN.
UT FRESHMAN SAM WHO WAS
ACCEPTED IN ALL OF THE SEVEN
COLLEGES HE APPLIED TO
OFFERS THIS INSIGHT.
OFFERS THIS INSIGHT. >>
A LOT OF PEOPLE WHO ARE
>> A LOT OF PEOPLE WHO ARE
UT COME FROM HIGH INCOME
UT COME FROM HIGH
INCOME FAMILIES.
FAMILIES. I MEAN
THEY'RE SMART AS YOU
I MEAN THEY'RE SMART AS YOU
FEEL DIFFERENT, YOU MIGHT
HAVE DIFFERENT MANNERISMS.
THAT DIFFERENCE IS REALLY IN
THAT DIFFERENCE IS REALLY
IN THE BACK OF YOUR MIND,
THE BACK OF YOUR MIND,
GETTING INTO THAT MENTAL
GETTING INTO THAT MENTAL HEAD
SPACE CAN, I DON'T KNOW,
HEAD SPACE CAN, I DON'T KNOW,
BE VERY-- COULD BE DAMAGING.
>> YOU HAVE TO BE ABLE TO
DISRUPT THE NOTION THAT
DISRUPT THE NOTION THAT THERE
IS SOME SORT OF DOUBT,
THERE IS SOME SORT OF DOUBT,
SOME SORT OF HESITANCY IN
BELIEVING THAT IT'S GOING TO
BELIEVING THAT IT'S
GOING TO WORK.
WORK. >> WE'VE GONE OVER SEVERAL
>> WE'VE GONE OVER SEVERAL
QUESTIONS THAT MADE YOU
REFLECT ON WHAT YOU HAVE
REFLECT ON WHAT YOU
HAVE ACCOMPLISHED.
ACCOMPLISHED. >>
Reporter: WITH SUPPORT
>> Reporter: WITH SUPPORT
FROM THE UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS,
PROFESSOR LAUDI CREATED THE
PROFESSOR LAUDI CREATED
THE UNIVERSITY LEADERSHIP
UNIVERSITY LEADERSHIP NETWORK.
NETWORK. A PROGRAM
THAT WORKS WITH
A PROGRAM THAT WORKS WITH
500 INCOMING FRESHMAN LIKE
THESE BASED ON ECONOMIC NEED,
WHERE THEY LIVE, THEIR
PARENTS' EDUCATION LEVEL AND
IF THEIR HIGH SCHOOL OFFERED
ADVANCED PLACEMENT CLASSES.
>> BEING ABLE TO CONFIDENTLY
LK AWAROUND CAMPUS KNOWING
WHAT I WANT TO DO, BEING
ABLE TO JUST TALK TO A
PROFESSOR AND ASK THEM FOR
PROFESSOR AND ASK
THEM FOR SOMETHING.
SOMETHING. I THINK
THAT IS SUPERSCARY.
I THINK THAT IS SUPERSCARY.
>> BRENA WHO WAS RECRUITED
AS A FRESHMAN BECAME A
MENTOR AS A SOPHOMORE.
MENTOR AS A SOPHOMORE. >>
YOU SOMETIMES FEEL LIKE
>> YOU SOMETIMES FEEL LIKE
ARE YOU NOT ADEQUATE.
AND I THINK IT'S REALLY
IMPORTANT TO TELL YOU THAT
IMPORTANT TO TELL YOU
THAT YOU ARE ADEQUATE.
YOU ARE ADEQUATE. YOU
DO HAVE ALL THE SKILLS
YOU DO HAVE ALL THE SKILLS
THAT EVERYONE ELSE HAS.
THAT EVERYONE ELSE HAS. YOU
JUST HAVE TO BELIEF IN
YOU JUST HAVE TO
BELIEF IN YOURSELF.
YOURSELF. >> I WILL
LET Y'ALL HAVE
>> I WILL LET Y'ALL HAVE
ONCE A MONTH MEETINGS.
ONCE A MONTH MEETINGS. >>
Reporter: STUDENTS ARE
>> Reporter: STUDENTS ARE
OFFERED $1,000 SCHOLARSHIPS
AT THE BEGINNING OF EACH
AT THE BEGINNING
OF EACH SEMESTER.
SEMESTER. >> DURING
THE FIRST FEW
>> DURING THE FIRST FEW
MONTHS I STAYED IN MY ROOM A
MONTHS I STAYED
IN MY ROOM A LOT.
LOT. >> Reporter: IF THEY
>> Reporter: IF THEY
COMPLETE WEEKLY REQUIREMENTS
LIKE THIS REFLECTION
LIKE THIS REFLECTION ACTIVITY.
ACTIVITY. >> THE
IDEA IS TO CREATE A
>> THE IDEA IS TO CREATE A
SUPPORT SYSTEM OF STUDENTS
AND MENTORS WHO SHARE
SIMILAR BACKGROUNDS.
SIMILAR BACKGROUNDS. >>
EVERYBODY IS GOING TO BE
>> EVERYBODY IS GOING TO
BE SEATED WITH THEIR EYES
SEATED WITH THEIR EYES CLOSED.
CLOSED. THE QUESTION
IS, TAPSON'S
THE QUESTION IS, TAPSON'S
SHOULDER WHO MADE YOU FEEL
SHOULDER WHO MADE
YOU FEEL IMPORTANT.
IMPORTANT. NO PEEKING.
NO PEEKING. >> THE
NEXT QUESTION IS TAP
>> THE NEXT QUESTION IS TAP
SOMEBODY WHO HAS GIVEN YOU
SOMEBODY WHO HAS GIVEN
YOU GOOD ADVICE.
GOOD ADVICE. TAP
SOMEBODY SHOULDER WHO
TAP SOMEBODY SHOULDER WHO
MADE YOU FEEL LOVED.
>> IT MADE ME FILE.
>> IT MADE ME FILE. I
WAS LIKE SMILING THE
I WAS LIKE SMILING THE
ENTIRE TIME, SUPERSWEET.
>> I REALLY ENJOYED THAT.
>> STUDENTS WORK THROUGH
SHARED CHALLENGES LIKE HOW
TO ORGANIZE STUDY TIME AND
HOW TO SURVIVE THE SHOCK OF
THEIR FIRST COLLEGE EXAM.
>> IT WAS A REAL WAKE-UP
CALL WHEN I BOMBED A TEST.
I WAS LIKE I STUDIED.
I KNOW THIS MATERIAL.
I KNOW THIS MATERIAL. >>
BUT BELONGING OR LACK OF
>> BUT BELONGING OR LACK OF
BELONGING IS SOMETHING THAT
ALMOST EVERY COLLEGE STUDENT
FEELS AT SOME POINT, DON'T
FEELS AT SOME POINT, DON'T THEY?
THEY? >> IT GETS
BACK TO TRUSTING
>> IT GETS BACK TO TRUSTING
THE COLLEGE IS GOING TO WORK
THE COLLEGE IS
GOING TO WORK OUT.
OUT. FIRST GENERATION STUDENTS
FIRST GENERATION STUDENTS
COMING FROM A SINGLE PARENT
FAMILY, AND YOU FAIL THAT
FAMILY, AND YOU FAIL
THAT FIRST TEST.
FIRST TEST. IT'S
VERY DIFFERENT THAN
IT'S VERY DIFFERENT THAN
WHEN YOU COME FROM AN
WHEN YOU COME FROM
AN AFFLUENT FAMILY.
AFFLUENT FAMILY. AN
AFFLUENT KID FAILS THE
AN AFFLUENT KID FAILS THE
FIRST TEST, CALLS HOME, THE
FATHER SAYS DON'T WORRY
ABOUT IT, THAT HAPPENED TO
ME WHEN I WAS IN COLLEGE.
ED STUDENT COMES FROM AN
UNDERRESOURCED BACKGROUND
CALLS HOME AND THE MOM SAYS
CALLS HOME AND THE MOM
SAYS SEE, I TOLD YOU SO.
SEE, I TOLD YOU SO. >>
TROUBLES AT HOME CAN ALSO
>> TROUBLES AT HOME CAN
ALSO WEIGH HEAVILY ON FIRST
WEIGH HEAVILY ON FIRST
GENERATION STUDENTS.
MOSSEST KOREA'S FATHER
SUFFERED AN INJURY AND CAN
SUFFERED AN INJURY AND
CAN NO LONGER WORK.
NO LONGER WORK. >>
SOMETIMES I FEEL LIKE I'M
>> SOMETIMES I FEEL LIKE
I'M NOT REALLY HELPING MY
NOT REALLY HELPING MY FAMILY.
FAMILY. HERE I AM
LIVING A LUXURY,
HERE I AM LIVING A LUXURY,
LIKE EATING FOOD HERE, AS
LIKE EATING FOOD HERE,
AS MUCH AS I WANT.
MUCH AS I WANT. AND LIKE
HAVING MY OWN PLACE
AND LIKE HAVING MY OWN
PLACE TO LIVE AND STUFF.
TO LIVE AND STUFF. >>
Reporter: RECENTLY HE
>> Reporter: RECENTLY HE
SENT $400 OF HIS SCHOLARSHIP
MONEY TO PAY HIS PARENTS
MONEY TO PAY HIS
PARENTS ELECTRIC BILL.
ELECTRIC BILL. >> MY
MOM CALLED ME AND SHE
>> MY MOM CALLED ME AND SHE
ASKED IF I COULD TEND MONEY
TO HELP PAY FOR THE BILL.
AND I WAS EAGER TO SAY YES.
AND SO I WAS ABLE TO DO THAT
AND SO I WAS ABLE TO
DO THAT FOR THEM.
FOR THEM. >> SECOND
THURSDAY EVERY
>> SECOND THURSDAY EVERY MONTH.
MONTH. >> Reporter: BRENDA FEELS
>> Reporter: BRENDA FEELS
ENORMOUS PRESSURE TO SUCCEED
IN ORDER TO HELP WITH THE
IN ORDER TO HELP WITH
THE FAMILY'S FINANCES.
FAMILY'S FINANCES. >> I
DONE SEE A PROBLEM WITH
>> I DONE SEE A PROBLEM WITH
HELPING MY PARENTS BECAUSE
THEY GAVE ME EVERYTHING WHEN
THEY GAVE ME EVERYTHING
WHEN I WAS A KID.
I WAS A KID. IT'S JUSA
LT OT OF PRESSURE
IT'S JUSA LT OT OF PRESSURE
BECAUSE SOMETIMES I FEEL
LIKE OTHER STUDENTS ARE JUST
LIKE OH, YOU KNOW, I'M JUST
LIKE OH, YOU KNOW, I'M
JUST HERE FOR COLLEGE.
HERE FOR COLLEGE. I'M
GOING TO HAVE FUN.
I'M GOING TO HAVE FUN. OF
COURSE I WANT TO HAVE FUN
OF COURSE I WANT TO HAVE FUN
TOO, BUT YOU KNOW, IT'S
REALLY HARD SOMETIMES
WHENEVER LIKE NO, YOU HAVE
TO SUCCEED, YOU CONDITION
SCREW UP BECAUSE IF YOU
SCREW UP, THEN LIKE YOUR
SCREWING UP MOM AND DAD TOO.
SCREWING UP MOM AND DAD
TOO. YOU CAN'T DO THAT.
YOU CAN'T DO THAT. >>
Reporter: AND THEN THERE
>> Reporter: AND THEN THERE
IS THE PRESSURE SOME
STUDENTS FEEL ABOUT CHOOSING
A MAJOR THEY MAY NOT LIKE
BUT WILL LEAD THEM TO A
BUT WILL LEAD THEM
TO A SECURE FUTURE.
SECURE FUTURE. >> SAM
DIDN'T START OUT A
>> SAM DIDN'T START
OUT A DANCE MAJOR.
DANCE MAJOR. >> I CAME
HERE AS A COMPUTER
>> I CAME HERE AS A
COMPUTER SCIENCE MAJOR ARE.
SCIENCE MAJOR ARE. FOR
FINANCIAL STABILITY BUT
FOR FINANCIAL STABILITY BUT
ALSO TO PLEASE MY PARENTS.
>> HELPING STUDENTS FIND A
MAJ THEIR IS THE RIGHT FIT
IS ONE OF THE WAYS THAT THE
IS ONE OF THE WAYS THAT
THE PROGRAM HOPES TO KEEP
PROGRAM HOPES TO KEEP
STUDENTS ON TRACK TO
STUDENTS ON TRACK TO GRADUATE.
GRADUATE. IT'S ALL
PART OF A GOAL TO
IT'S ALL PART OF A GOAL TO
CONNECT THESE STUDENTS TO
THE UNIVERSITY CULTURE.
>> THESE STUDENTS MUST
ENGAGE IN WORKSHOPS,
INTERNSHIPS AND PUBLIC
INTERNSHIPS AND PUBLIC SERVICE.
SERVICE. IF THEY MEET PROGRAM
IF THEY MEET PROGRAM
REQUIREMENTS THEY CAN EARN
$20,000 OVER FOUR YEARS.
>> IT ATTACHES STRINGS TO
THAT MONEY AND SAYS IN
THAT MONEY AND SAYS
IN EXCHANGE YOU WILL
EXCHANGE YOU WILL
DEMONSTRATE THAT YOU ARE
BECOMING WHAT YOU WANT TO BE
BECOMING WHAT YOU WANT
TO BE IN COLLEGE.
IN COLLEGE. ARE YOU
BECOMING A LEADER,
ARE YOU BECOMING A LEADER,
YOU ARE BECOMING A
YOU ARE BECOMING A PROFESSIONAL.
PROFESSIONAL. ARE YOU
BEING SUCCESSFUL IN
ARE YOU BEING SUCCESSFUL
IN WHAT YOU DO.
WHAT YOU DO. SO WE
NEEDED THE MONEY OUT
SO WE NEEDED THE MONEY OUT
CONDITIONALLY THIS RESPONSE
TO THEM DEMONSTRATING THAT
MONTH-TO-MONTH TO MONTH.
>> MY ACCOMPLISHMENT WAS
MAKINGNIVE URSITY HONORS
MAKINGNIVE URSITY
HONORS THING FOR GPA.
THING FOR GPA. >> IN A
PROMISING SIGN, 92%
>> IN A PROMISING SIGN, 92%
OF THE LEADERSHIP NETWORK
FIRST STUDENTS WILL RETURN
FIRST STUDENTS WILL
RETURN THIS FALL.
THIS FALL. BUT
SUPPORTERS BELIEVE THERE
BUT SUPPORTERS BELIEVE THERE
ARE TWICE AS MANY INCOMING
STUDENTS WHO COULD BENEFIT
FROM THE PROGRAM.
EXPANDING TO REACH ALL OF
THEM MAY DEPEND ON JUST HOW
THESE STUDENTS PROGRESS.
IN AUSTIN, TEXAS, HARI
SREENIVASAN FOR THE PBS
SREENIVASAN FOR
THE PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: BEFORE WE GO, WE
WANT TO MARK THE PASSING OF AN
EVERYDAY HERMARYLAND BUSINESSMAY
ROBINSON USED HIS LOVE OF BATMAN
TO BRING A LITTLE JOY TO THE
LIVES OF SICK CHILDREN.
LIVES OF SICK CHILDREN. HE HAD
THE COSTUME, A CUSTOMIZED
HE HAD THE COSTUME, A CUSTOMIZED
BATMOBILE, AND REGULARLY CAME TO
THE RESCUE AT WASHINGTON, D.C.
THE RESCUE AT WASHINGTON,
D.C. AREA HOSPITALS.
AREA HOSPITALS. HERE HE
IS AT AN EVENT ORGANIZED
HERE HE IS AT AN EVENT ORGANIZED
BY THE HOPE FOR HENRY
BY THE HOPE FOR
HENRY FOUNDATION.
FOUNDATION. LENNY
ROBINSON WAS KILLED LAST
LENNY ROBINSON WAS KILLED LAST
NIGHT AFTER HIS CAR WAS STRUCK
WHILE PULLED OVER ON THE SIDE OF
WHILE PULLED OVER ON
THE SIDE OF THE ROAD.
THE ROAD. HE WAS 51 YEARS OLD.
HE WAS 51 YEARS OLD. YOU
CAN READ MORE ABOUT LENNY
YOU CAN READ MORE ABOUT LENNY
"BATMAN" ROBINSON ON OUR
WEBSITE, pbs.org/newshour.
WEBSITE, pbs.org/newshour. AND
ON TUESDAY'S NEWSHOUR, GWEN
AND ON TUESDAY'S NEWSHOUR, GWEN
CONTINUES HER REPORTING ON THE
CONTINUES HER REPORTING
ON THE CAMPAIGN TRAIL.
CAMPAIGN TRAIL. >>
TOMORROW IN IOWA I SIT
>> TOMORROW IN IOWA I SIT
DOWN WITH ANOTHER RISING
CANDIDATE OHIO GOVERNOR JOHN
CANDIDATE OHIO
GOVERNOR JOHN KASICH.
KASICH. JUDY?
JUDY? A CORRECTION TO A STORY WE
A CORRECTION TO A STORY WE
REPORTED FRIDAY ABOUT ISIS.
WE SAID THAT THE LEADER ABU
AL BAGHDADI HAD BEEN KILLED.
IS THERE HAD BEEN SOME
REPORTS OF HIS DEATH, NONE
REPORTS OF HIS DEATH,
NONE HAVE BEEN CONFIRMED.
HAVE BEEN CONFIRMED.
THAT IS THE NEWSHOUR FOR
THAT IS THE NEWSHOUR
FOR TONIGHT, I'M
TONIGHT, I'M THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF, JOIN US
ONLINE, AND AGAIN HERE TOMORROW
ONLINE, AND AGAIN HERE
TOMORROW EVENING.
EVENING. FOR ALL
OF US AT THE PBS
FOR ALL OF US AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU
AND GOOD NIGHT.